Urban Landmark Table
d100 LANDMARK
1-4 Market Square
5-8 Town square / place of local gatherings
9-12 Statue
13-16 Other monument such as a sculpture, children’s park,
17-20 Major religious temple / Cathedral
21-24 City Hall / Major administrative building
25-28 Fountain
29-32
Important / Historical building. Choose a Important / Historical building. Choose a building building from this list, but add the characteristic from this list, but add the characteristic that it is ancient that it is ancient
and historically significant. What event happened here? Use keywords.
33-36 Significant bridge
37-40 Historical great wall
41-44 Historical ruins / Ancient temple
45-48 Unknown relic or Unknown relic or monument from ancient civilization monument from ancient civilization
49-52
Huge natural monument. Could be a sacred hill that has been has been left intact in the middle of the city. A g left intact in the middle of the city. A giant
tree. A sinkhole. Perhaps the city has a massive lake in the centre of it. Let keywords or oracle ques e in the centre of it. Let keywords or oracle questions
decide.
53-56 Grand palace / Opulent house / Castle
57-60 Botanic gardens / Sculpted gardens
61-64 Coliseum
65-68 Ancient / Famous House
69-72 Beautiful man-made canal
73-76 Monument of religious prophet / Deity
77-80 Place of religious pilgrimage / touchstone / blessed relic or pl d relic or place. Massively important historical ace. Massively important historical
monument or site.
81-84 Trade Academy / University / Library. You choose. Or roll a d6.
85-88 Mausoleum
89-92 Prison
93-96 Graveyard / Tomb
97-
100
Observatory

Market Square Table
d8 MARKET SQUARE DESCRIPTION NOTES
1
Standard peasants’ market, with an added feature: this area is
inhabited by a travelling circus / troupe of actors who are
entertaining the locals with a performance
30% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
2
Market is set up and in Market is set up and in full swing, this is a mixtu full swing, this is a mixture of
artisanal wares and basic goods for peasants
35% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
3
Farmer’s market. Lots of fresh produce, possibly a good place
to pick up rumours about activity in the surrounding
countryside.
Generate 1d4 rumours (see Chapter 10, Chapter 3
of TSAT1). 50% chance of an urban landmark (roll
on Urban Landmark  table).
4
Artisanal market - high quality goods at quite respectable
prices.
10% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
5
A market has been set up A market has been set up here, but local businesses here, but local businesses are not are not
happy. This area is not sanctioned as a market space and they
are taking away customers.
40% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
6
This market is shabby. The goods are second rate and the
whole place is messy, littered with garbage, with animals roaming free. It’s a wonder it hasn’t been roaming free. It’s a wonder it hasn’t been shut dow shut down.
40% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
7
This area is very busy - This area is very busy - the press of people is int the press of people is intense in this ense in this
market. Keep a close eye on y market. Keep a close eye on your belongings here! our belongings here!
50% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
8
This market is in a state of (d4) 1-2: This market is in a state of (d4) 1-2: Just setting Just setting up, 3-4: Just up, 3-4: Just
packing down.
30% of a Random Urban encounter (Chapter 3-2 of
this book or Chapter 5 of TSAT1). 50% chance of
an urban landmark (roll on Urban Landmark  table).
Public Square Table
d12 PUBLIC SQUARE DESCRIPTION NOTES
1
An expansive, neatly-paved square serves An expansive, neatly-paved square serves as the ent as the entrance point to a rance point to a
grand building (possibly a temple?) Several other impressive buildings
surround this area, and there are notable other features present.
Roll twice on Urban Landmark table.
2
This green square is a peaceful oasis, This green square is a peaceful oasis, where trees where trees provide shade and provide shade and
shelter from the elements. Citizens laze about on the grass, conversing,
eating, playing music or reading tomes.
Roll once on Urban Landmark table.
3
This windswept square is rather bleak, and p This windswept square is rather bleak, and people h eople hurry to and fro with urry to and fro with
heads down. A garrison of soldiers is practicing forming ranks over one
side, and several brutal-looking buildings surround this public square.
Roll once on Urban Landmark table.
4
This busy, chaotic square seems to be a point of departure and arrival for
the town. Many carriages are arrayed, all displaying different different
destinations across the realm on hand-painted signs. Various deals are
being struck with farmers, miners and other new arrivals to the ivals to the city.
Roll once on Street Event table.
5
This square serves as a large courtyard for a royal or administrative
building of some kind. There is a large building of some kind. There is a large podium set podium set up with chairs up with chairs
arrayed. Is there a festival or something similar g perhaps? oing on right now
Roll once on Street Event table, once
on Urban Landmark table.
86
6
This square is stepped, as in there ar This square is stepped, as in there are different l e different levels, and beautiful water evels, and beautiful water
features decorate each area. The engineering of these is i se is interesting. nteresting.
There are many other features here too. It almost forms a kind of outdoor
art exhibition.
Roll once on Urban Landmark table.
7
This old square is in disrepair. Several This old square is in disrepair. Several ruined bui ruined buildings stand around its ldings stand around its
edge, and the square itself has many p edge, and the square itself has many places where t laces where the rubble is crumbling he rubble is crumbling
What’s lurking in those ruined
buildings? Some of them might even
be condemned.
 
and potholes have appeared. Perhaps this was the scene of a ene of a disaster of disaster of
some kind.
8
There is a street that runs around the outside of this square, b his square, but the
middle is a garden/common where creatures roam. It is [d4] (1-2)
Overgrown (3-4) Neatly kept.
What’s lurking in that garden?
9
This large square features a sunken This large square features a sunken amphitheatre at amphitheatre at its centre where its centre where
dramas are performed, night and day.
What play is currently being
performed? Some local legend, or
perhaps a mythological tale of gods
and fearsome beasts!
10
This large grassy square has a sizable pond This large grassy square has a sizable pond at its centre. People throw centre. People throw
coins in and make wishes. Some say that it’s quite deep and opens deep and opens to a
system of catacombs through a hidden cave.
Roll once on Urban Landmark table.
11
A large, vast square with a temple, government buildings, and numerous and numerous
prominent merchants. Adjust size according to settlement. If this is a
metropolis, it could be massive, whereas if it’s a town it could measure
four square blocks.
Roll four times on Urban Landmark
Table. For the businesses around the
edge of this square, roll twice for each
result and choose your preference.
12
A major, historically and culturally significant memorial / morial / structure / structure /
landmark.
Roll on Urban Landmark Table, but
when generating results for this site
keep in mind that it is a place keep in mind that it is a place of huge of huge
cultural importance. Perhaps use
keywords and oracle rolls to
determine the exact nature.
Alleyway Table
d8 ALLEYWAY DESCRIPTION NOTES
1 A back entrance to a den of il A back entrance to a den of illicit activity. licit activity.
Roll on the Entertainment / Illicit industries table to find out
the nature of this the nature of this establishment.10% chance of a co establishment.10% chance of a combat
encounter with humanoids
2
This alleyway is a haven This alleyway is a haven for thieves, for thieves,
pickpockets and assassins. It’s very likely
there is a thieves’ guild nearby.
30% chance of being pickpocketed, 20% chance of a random
encounter with humanoids.
3
This is the back of a business se This is the back of a business selling food or lling food or
meat, or a restaurant.
You might be able to scavenge some food if you’re hungry.
4 Adjacent to residences. Reasonably well-kept. You see laundry strung out between
porches and other domestic scenes.
5 Adjacent to a tavern Stumbling drunks, the occasional fight, people sleeping in the
shadows.
6 Dilapidated, dark and wet.
Is something sinister going on down here? Something hiding
that’s escaped from the sewers? 10% chance of a combat
encounter with a monstrosity or aberration.
87
7
Well-paved and maintained, a simple
throughway between two streets.
Possibly leading to a Commerce, Divine, Government or
Scribes District.
8
A beautiful alleyway, architecturally
constructed.
Possibly with a notable feature such as a statue, fountain, shrine
etc.