Crack in the ground. You encounter a wide gap, with an abyss below, and no way over
except jumping. Make a DC 13 + tier Strength (Athletics) check to get across, or find some
other method. (Fly spells, or use of a rope, tree log etc).
2 You slip on a section of slippery ground. Make a DC 11 + tier Dexterity (Acrobatics) check
or take 1d4-1 bludgeoning damage.
3
You come across a humanoid who has been wounded in battle. Make a DC 15 + tier
Wisdom (Medicine) check to get them up and moving. If successful, you may gain 1
sidekick who has a maximum of (tier) hd. For more information on tiers, see p.13.
4
Dungeon: You are passing through a huge colony of bats, which are all currently sleeping.
Make a DC 13 + tier Dexterity (Stealth) check. If you fail, they all awaken and flap around
you. Make a DC 18 + tier Dexterity saving throw. If you fail, take 2d6 piercing damage,
half on a successful save.
Wilderness: A herd of animals is crossing your path. Make a DC 13 + tier Wisdom
(Animal Handling) check to successfully navigate your way through. If you fail, the
panicked animals start a stampede, and you must make a DC 20 + tier Dexterity saving
throw. If you fail, take 2d6 bludgeoning damage, half on a successful save.
5
Something is tracking you! Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Nature) check, a DC 17 + tier
Dexterity (Stealth) check or a DC 17 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If you fail,
you are surprised during the first round of your next combat encounter, and you cannot
gain surprise at the start of this encounter either.
6 The path here is blocked by some fallen obstacle. Make a DC 15 + tier Strength (Athletics)
check to clear the obstacle, or choose a different path.
7
There is some sort of wild magic field here. Make a DC 15 + tier Intelligence (Arcana)
check to determine the nature of it, otherwise any spells you cast in this area are subject to
rolls on the wild magic table (PHB, p.104).
140
8
You come across a historical account of the happenings here, either a mural or markings
etched on rock. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (History) check. If successful, you have
advantage on all Intelligence- and Wisdom-based checks for the remainder of this quest.
9
Some kind of slaughter or battle has gone on in this area. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check to discern the nature of past events. If
successful, gain an inspiration.
10
You find a shrine to a deity, although the statue is partially disfigured and it is hard to
identify. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Religion) check. If successful, roll once on the
Boon table (p.152).
11
A short pillar bears an interesting relic, but it appears that it is resting on a pressure plate.
Nearby is a stone or similar object that looks like it could be roughly the same weight.
Make a DC 17 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check to replace the item. If successful,
gain one common magic item.
12
A group of potentially hostile humanoids are resting in this area. They appear quite drunk
and demand you regale them with song! Make a DC 11 + tier Charisma (Performance)
check. If successful, they throw a bit of gold at you! Gain 1d20 gp. If unsuccessful,
encounter 1d4+1 thugs (or other low-level humanoid of your choice, minimum CR ¼). Due
to their drunkenness, their attack rolls are all -2.
13
A spectral figure appears before you. “You shall not pass this point, traveler! I invoke the
power of an ancient curse and forbid your passage! Only the mightiest may pass beyond
me.”
Make a DC 14 + tier Charisma (Intimidation) check, or a DC 19 + tier Charisma
(Persuasion) check. If successful, you may proceed, and you gain an inspiration. If you fail,
you must find another way around, or encounter 1 undead creature of hard difficulty.
14
Markings on a wall or a nearby rock read: “No-one bearing weapons may enter here.” If
anyone in your party is carrying weapons, perhaps you can try to hide them from whatever
force is at work here. Make a DC 14 + tier Charisma (Deception) check. If successful, you
may proceed with your weapons. Otherwise, you may find another way around. If you
choose to ignore this warning, make a DC 17 + tier Wisdom save, otherwise you are
afflicted by an ancient curse which causes 3d8 psychic damage!
15
You find strange tracks on the floor/ground, which leads you to think there may be
enemies nearby. Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom (Survival) check. If successful, your enemies
are surprised during the first round of your next combat encounter.
16
You find evidence of the evil handiwork of your enemy (roll keywords to discern the nature
of it). This reveals something about your enemy’s persona. Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom
(Insight) check. If successful, you gain the following boon.
Enemy Insight: During the next BBEG encounter, when an attack from that BBEG would
hit, you can choose to have it miss instead. You can only use this boon once.
17
You come across a large patch of fungi growing here. There are all kinds of colours and
shapes here, and some of them seem almost to glow with a kind of volatile fluorescence.
Make a DC 12 + tier Wisdom (Survival), or Intelligence (Nature) check. If successful, you
are able to gather the equivalent of two vials of basic poison (PHB, p.153).
18
You find some ancient architecture which appears strange. But it reminds you of something
you have seen before. Make a DC 11 + tier Intelligence (History) check. If successful, you
have advantage on saving throws to avoid the next trap you encounter.
141
19
You feel a hint of a magical aura coming from somewhere nearby. If you have any affiliation
with magic (i.e., you are a caster or a being for whom magic has played a part in their life)
make a DC 17 + tier Intelligence (Arcana) check. If you succeed, you have advantage on
saving throws against spells for the rest of this quest.
20
Dungeon: A nearby door is locked, with no latch or apparent way to open it (if there is no
door in your current area, you suddenly notice one). However, it appears that the lever to
open it is high up on the wall, near the ceiling. By using the walls as springboards, a
dexterous character might be able to propel themselves up to the lever to activate it. Make
a DC 15 + tier Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. If successful, you make it to the lever and get
the door open. Roll on Chamber Contents (DMG p.296 or TSAT2 p.36) to see what is
behind this secret door.
Wilderness: Storm Winds. A gust of powerful wind catches you by surprise, sending
nearby objects into the air like missiles. Make a DC 12 +1d4 Dexterity saving throw to
avoid the debris. On a failure you take 3d8 bludgeoning damage and are knocked prone. To
continue you must succeed on a DC 12 + 1d4 Strength (Athletics) check or take shelter and
wait out the storm winds.
21
You find a series of small niches in the wall where caskets could have been stowed. Some of
them are broken open. Make a DC 17 + tier Intelligence (Religion) check. If successful, you
sense the presence of undead creatures in the area, and your next combat encounter will
feature undead creatures.
If unsuccessful, the next combat encounter will feature undead, but your party will be
surprised in the first round of combat.
22
Suddenly, from nowhere, a glowing, spectral blue rope appears, and begins wrapping
around your hands and feet. Make a DC 14 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check to
attempt to get your hands free, and then your feet. If unsuccessful you are restrained for the
next turn. You can use an action every turn to repeat this check, ending the effect as soon
as you succeed on the check.
23
You encounter some low-level minions in the service of the BBEG. “Hello there,” they say,
looking you up and down. “What brings you to our master’s domain, then?”
There’s a chance you could get out of this situation. Make a DC 11 + tier Charisma
(Deception) check. If successful, you may go on your way. If unsuccessful, roll a levelappropriate easy encounter featuring humanoids.
24
You find markings possibly left by henchmen of the enemy you pursue. They speak of their
leader’s power, stating that “All who come near our master shall be destroyed!” But
something seems a little off about these boasts. Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Insight)
check to discern the deeper meanings behind these. If successful, you have advantage on
saving throws against being charmed or frightened during your next BBEG encounter.
25
An animal, trapped in a cage, is immediately friendly towards you. You may be able take it
on as a companion, if your class allows it. What is required is a DC 12 + tier Dexterity
(Sleight of Hand) or Thieves’ Tools check to unlock the cage and then a DC 13 Wisdom +
tier (Animal Handling) check. If successful, you gain a beast companion up to the allowance
for your class. For example, rangers have a limit on the CR of the beast they can choose to
be their companion, which increases with their ranger level.
26
A far-off sound catches your attention. Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Perception) check. If
successful, you gain an insight into enemy movements. Take one inspiration or one Clue
Point if playing the battlemap crawl/realm crawl method.
27 A pool is before you, shimmering like silver, and within you fancy you can see images,
moving, beyond your reflection.
142
Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Perception) check. If successful, you gain an insight into
what is happening in another nearby area. During this quest, you have advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks to sneak up on enemies and surprise them.
28
You notice a swarm of tiny, gnat-like creatures swarming in one area. Make a DC 14 + tier
Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. If successful, and you have an empty glass vial or other
breakable vessel, you are able to capture some of these creatures. As a bonus action, you can
throw these at a creature so that the vessel shatters on impact (or, alternately, you can open
a vessel beside the creature and then disengage and move away as an action). The gnats will
buzz around the nearest creature, imposing disadvantage on its attacks for 1d4 rounds.
29
A nearby architectural wall has strange contours, leading you to think there might be a
hidden door here. Make a DC 16 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If successful, you
discover a hidden room. Roll for a new room using dungeon generation tools (or any tools
you want). If the rolls produce a monster encounter, you can ignore this if you wish to (as
the room was hidden for a long time).
30
If an NPC or sidekick is present, all of a sudden, they take offence at something you’ve
done, either recently or sometime in the past. They are threatening to leave the party. Or,
perhaps, if there are two members in this party, one disagrees with the other.
Make a DC 15 + tier Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma (Intimidation) check. If
unsuccessful, the NPC or sidekick leaves the party. If the disagreement involves two
characters, then for the remainder of this quest neither character can take advantage of
traits that rely on having an ally present. Take note whether you used Persuasion or
Intimidation, as this will colour future interactions.
If you feel this check is unfair and will affect balance adversely, feel free to reroll.
31
You find the satchel of an apothecary. Perhaps you have no idea what many of these items
do, but you might be willing to experiment. Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Medicine)
check. If successful, you gain 1 Healer’s Kit.
32
Nearby, you see a high rock ledge which seems to have an object placed on it. You can only
see part of the object, and can’t really tell what it is, but it looks to be man-made. Perhaps
someone placed it up there for safe-keeping. Reaching it is going to take some brute
strength or agility.
Make a DC 17 + tier Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check to reach this
item. If successful, roll on the Items table (p.163). Reroll until you find something that
makes sense given the context. If using the battlemap crawl method, gain 1 Clue Point.
33
You see large, looming statues ahead, that stand like sentinels, on either side of a narrow
throughway. Their eyes glow red, and you sense a trap of some sort. Perhaps they simply
act as alarms, letting nearby enemies know of the presence of trespassers. Make a DC 14 +
tier Dexterity (Stealth) check to creep by these silent sentinels, or find another way around.
If you fail the check, roll a d4. (1-2) The statues emit lightning from their eyes. Make a DC
17 + tier Dexterity saving throw or take (tier) d6 lightning damage. (3-4) The statues
begin to howl in an otherworldly dirge. You cannot gain surprise on enemies. Immediately
initiate a medium-difficulty encounter.
34
You find evidence of a nearby small mining operation. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence
(History) check. If successful, you know who was mining here, and what they were mining
for. Make a DC 19 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If successful, gain 1d4 x 100 gp
gems.
35
You find a small natural rock alcove where slime covers every surface. Even coming near it
causes you to gag and your breath to catch in your throat. It is clearly poisonous.
Make a DC 11 + tier Intelligence (Nature) check. If successful, you have advantage on
saving throws against poison while in this dungeon / wilderness area. Additionally, if you 
143
have something to gather it in, you can attempt a DC 18 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand)
check. Also gain 2 vials of basic poison (PHB p.153).
If unsuccessful, make a DC 13 + tier Constitution save or take 3d6 poison damage.
36
You find evidence of cult-like, ritualistic activity. At some point in the recent past, it
appears a cult has worshipped here.
Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Religion) check. If successful, gain your choice of an
inspiration or 1 Clue Point.
37
Someone has erected a barrier here, to try and hamper the progress of anyone approaching.
Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Insight) check to try and discern who built this, and what
their intentions might have been. If successful, roll a d4. (1-2) A possible ally erected this,
who is still somewhere nearby. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If
successful, gain 1 sidekick. (3-4) An enemy erected this. Gain either an inspiration or 1 Clue
Point.
38
You find a dead creature which died in a bizarre way, as a result of some magically inflicted
disease, or possibly by poison. Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Medicine) check. If successful,
you are able to gain knowledge of how this creature died.
For the rest of this quest, you have advantage on saving throws against one of the
following (choose, based on what is most appropriate for your current quest and the
monsters you have encountered): poison, acid or necrotic damage.
If none of these are appropriate, gain an inspiration or a Clue Point instead.
39
You are aware that at some stage you are going to need to rest, and as you move through
this area you begin scouting for potential campsites. Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom
(Survival) check. If successful, you find a campsite and will not be disturbed during your
next rest. If unsuccessful, there is a 50% chance that you rest will be disturbed by a creature
during your next rest. The next time you choose to rest, roll a d100. If 50 or under, roll for
a monster encounter. Unless someone was on watch, the monster has advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks to surprise you.
40
You find a piece of graffiti on a wall. It reads “A message for my fellow travelers: The
creatures in these parts love a song and dance. It saved my life when I was wandering
through these parts. May it save yours too.”
Save this for your next combat encounter. When you next encounter monsters, make a DC
13 + tier Charisma (Performance) check. If successful, the creatures do not attack, and you
may leave the area without further mishap. However, this effect will end if you cause
damage to any of these creatures.
41
You encounter a fountain. An ancient plaque proclaims it to be a place of arcane restoration,
for those who can discern its secrets.
Any caster or character who possesses some sort of innate spellcasting ability, can make a
DC 13 + tier Intelligence (Arcana) check. On a success, regain spell slots equivalent to your
level divided by half. For example, if you are level 10, you gain 5 levels of spell slots. This
could be a level 2 spells slot and a level 3 spell slot, or a level 2 slot and three level 1 slots,
or any combination. If you are level 1, regain a level 1 spell slot. This boon cannot be used
to gain extra spell slots. If all your spell slots are unused, restore your hp to max instead.
42
A strange series of runes painted on the floor (or a rock, if outdoors) are glowing, and
represent symbols that have an evil look to them. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence
(Religion) check. If successful, you sense the presence of fiends in the area. Fiends have been
summoned to this area, and are possibly roaming nearby.
Your next combat encounter will feature fiends. If your Religion check was unsuccessful,
make a DC 13 + tier Wisdom (Perception) check at the start of the fiend encounter. If
unsuccessful, you are surprised in the first round of combat.
144
43
You suddenly get the feeling you are being watched, as if your enemy has eyes everywhere,
magical or otherwise. Make a DC 14 + tier Dexterity (Stealth) check. If successful, gain
either an inspiration or 1 Clue Point.
44
You suddenly remember hearing something in the last settlement about this place, a detail
that has only just come back to you. Make a DC 11 + tier Intelligence (History) check. If
successful, your character immediately learns the location of the BBEG, and their monster
type. They have advantage on Stealth rolls to determine surprise at the start of the BBEG
encounter.
45
After spending some time in this area, you are starting to get a feel for the lay of the place
and your senses are heightened. Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom (Survival) check. If
successful, enemies have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks to creep up on you.
46
You suspect you might have picked up a tail. It feels as if you are being followed. Nothing
you can pin down, just a feeling of being watched.
Make a DC 13 + tier Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check. If successful, you
sense the location of the tail and are able to lose them. If unsuccessful, encounter 1 monster
of the type that fits with the theme of your current quest.
47
All of a sudden, the floor is flooded with a slippery substance that you think is oil. Make a
DC 13 + tier Strength (Athletics) check or Dexterity saving throw to stay on your feet or
become prone and take 1d4 bludgeoning from the fall. Perhaps this is the beginning of an
ambush? If in wilderness, some other disorienting force has come into play, such as a
log/pit trap or even the area being flooded with tar or something crazy like that.
48
The plant life in here is familiar to you, you think. Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom (Nature)
check. If successful, you find 1d6 healing berries. Each heals 3 hp and may be consumed as a
bonus action.
49
“Traveler!” a disembodied voice suddenly addresses you. “The ancient goddess of mischief
demands you entertain her with a song. Sing, little one! I have been bored for so long in this
place. Entertain me!”
Make a DC 14 + tier Charisma (Performance) check. If successful, you gain the Charm of
Heroism (10 temporary hit points) for the remainder of your current quest. If you fail, make
a roll on the [d4] (1-3) Bane table, p.157 (4) Boon table, p.152.
50
A tormented spirit appears to you, accusing you of trespassing here. “All who come here
want only one thing: to raid the treasures within this sanctum. You shall not do the same!”
Make a DC 14 + tier Charisma (Persuasion) check. If unsuccessful, the spirit will let you go
on your way. If you fail, encounter one hard spectral undead creature (such as a ghost or a
specter).
51
You come across a secret door which has jammed on opening. There is enough of a gap that
you can see through, but not enough that you can fit. Make a DC 15 + tier Strength
(Athletics) check to get it open wide enough, and then you can move through to the other
side. Make a 6d12 table roll in either the Special Room Column or the Passage column,
adding 2 to every d12.
52
There is an area here that is blocked by a huge portcullis, secured by a sturdy lock. If in
wilderness, treat this as a tomb or some kind of gatehouse. If proficient with thieves’ tools,
you may attempt a DC 15 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or thieves’ tools check to get
the door open. Otherwise, a DC 19 + tier Strength (Athletics) check will allow you to bash
this portcullis in, but the noise might attract enemies!
53 From some way ahead you hear voices! Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Perception) or
Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern who is speaking, and whether they are friendly 
145
or hostile (use oracle rolls). If hostile, make a Dexterity (Stealth) check (using their passive
Perception as the DC) to sneak up on them.
54
An inquisitive beast is lurking nearby, and seems agitated, almost as if it is trying to tell
you something, or warn you of something. Its behaviour seems odd.
Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. If successful gain one of the
following boons of your choice: (1) Gain a clue point (2) Gain an inspiration (3) You cannot
be surprised for the remainder of the quest (4) When the next combat encounter is
triggered, treat it that your character already knew the location. Give them advantage on a
Dexterity (Stealth) check vs the enemy’s passive Perception. If successful, the enemy is
surprised in the first round of combat.
55
You discover a piece of arcane war machinery, but it is poised on the brink of selfdestruction. The only thing stopping it from going off is a bladed weapon, which has been
stuck in the mechanism to jam it. The weapon is ornate and appears enchanted. The weapon
type is one of the following [d4] (1) Shortsword (2) Longsword (3) Rapier (4) Greatsword.
To retrieve this rare-looking weapon, make a DC 17 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or
thieves’ tools check to disable the war machine. If successful, gain a Vicious Weapon (DMG
p.209). If unsuccessful, you inadvertently trigger the device, which explodes! Take (tier x 5)
d6 bludgeoning damage from the explosion.
56
You see a door in a wall, with three bells positioned above the door. Each has a rope
hanging from it. A plaque reads Play for me a tune to hear, and the way before you will be clear.
Make a DC 13 + tier Charisma (Performance) check. If successful, you gain entry to this
mysterious door. If unsuccessful, there is no extra effect.
The door could open onto a previously undiscovered chamber, or one already present in
your quest. Use standard generation tools to populate this chamber. If you are outdoors,
treat it as a small shrine or wilderness tomb.
57
You are extremely on edge. Did you just hear something? A flicker of movement in the
corner of your eye? Make a DC 13 + tier Wisdom (Survival) check. If successful, you have
advantage on Dexterity saving throws to avoid traps while in this area.
58
From seemingly nowhere, a bolt of lightning streaks towards you! Make a DC 15 + tier
Dexterity saving throw to avoid this arcane trap, taking 2d10 lightning damage on a failed
save. Once you recover yourself, you see that up in a high spot is a relic of some sort which
has been enchanted to fire lightning bolts at any who attempt to pass below (If outside, it is
positioned up in a tree, if in a dungeon it is ensconced in the wall). However, vines lead up
to where it is, making it possible to reach. Make a DC 14 + tier Dexterity (Acrobatics)
check to get to the relic which is causing all this havoc, then remove it from its sconce,
which will stop it functioning as a trap. Then, make a roll on one of the magic item tables to
determine what the relic is (Chapter 4-6) [d10] (1-7) Common (8-9) Uncommon (10) Rare.
59
You think back to your last combat encounter, and it occurs to you that there was some
design in how you and your allies were targeted. The creature which you seek has nefarious
designs of some description on you, but you can’t discern exactly what those designs are.
Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Insight) check. If successful, gain your choice of one of the
following (1) Inspiration for all party members (2) Roll once on the Boon table (p.152) and
apply that to the character who rolled this result.
60
You come across a semi-conscious PC, on the brink of death. They seem eager to tell you
something… Make a DC 15 + tier Wisdom (Medicine) check. If successful, you gain
important knowledge regarding your quest. Use keywords and/or oracles to determine the
nature of this knowledge. Also, if successful, gain your choice of one of the following (1)
Inspiration for all party members (2) Roll once on the Boon table (p.152) and apply that to a 
146
character of your choice. From here, it is up to here whether you let this character
peacefully depart or whether you nurse him back to health and gain a sidekick/NPC.
61
Your sidekick or NPC, if they are with the group, refuses to continue. “Something’s not
right about this… I won’t walk willingly to my own demise!”
You try your best to convince them to continue. Make a DC 11 + tier Charisma
(Persuasion) check. If unsuccessful, choose one of the following: (1) Lose a Clue Point
(Battlemap Crawl System) (2) Lose your sidekick or NPC (3) While you waste time
conversing, a wandering monster or monsters discovers your location and attacks! Roll for
1 Medium encounter.
62
Pick (or roll for) a random member of your party. They start to feel queasy, possibly as a
result of something they ingested lately. Eventually they can’t go on and have to sit down.
Trying to help them with this digestive ailment is going to require a DC 11 + tier Wisdom
(Medicine) check. Alternatively, have them make a DC 14 + tier Constitution saving throw.
If you fail either roll, that character takes the Poisoned condition.
63
Your adventuring partner (if you have one, or an NPC) begins insisting on a course of
action that you thoroughly disagree with (roll keywords for details). Make a Charisma
(Persuasion) check equal or above their Wisdom score to talk them out of it. Alternately,
(or if the Persuasion check does not work) make a Charisma (Deception) check equal or
above their Wisdom score to make it look like you are going along with their suggested
course of action, when in truth you have no intention of doing so. If you choose the
Deception route, be aware that this will have consequences later on when they discover
your true intentions!
64
A monster appears and forbids you from proceeding. Consult your monster lists and make
this a Medium - Hard level encounter, appropriate to your current environment. Make a
Charisma (Intimidation) check equal or above this monster’s Wisdom score to avoid the
encounter and pass unheeded. Otherwise, either backtrack or encounter the monster!
65
From out of nowhere, objects begin raining from the sky! These could be small rocks,
hailstones, or any other object (perhaps this is the result of some magical effect). Make it
appropriate to your story.
Make a DC 14 + tier Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, or take (tier x 2) d10 damage of a type
appropriate to the objects (e.g., bludgeoning damage for rocks).
66
You pass a wall that is decorated with a mural, but the humanoid and animal figures in it
seem to be moving. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (History) or Intelligence (Arcana)
check to learn more about the nature of this mural, what it depicts and how it came to be
here. Generate story using keywords.
67
You find a musical instrument on the ground.
Roll a d6 to find out what it is. (1-2) Flute (3-4) Lute (5-6) Hand drum.
Make a DC 17 + tier Charisma (Performance) check to play this instrument. If successful,
you activate its arcane nature. This instrument transforms into an animal familiar which
will be loyal to you for the remainder of this quest, and will appear whenever you use a
bonus action to play a note or two on the instrument. You can dismiss the creature and
have it transform back into an instrument as an action. The creature is a [d6] (1) Wolf (2)
Boar (3) Giant Badger (4) Black Bear (5) Brown Bear (6) Dire Wolf. What you have in fact
found, is a familiar instrument (homebrew magic item).
68
A strange sound is coming from somewhere (roll on the table found on DMG p.298 for
details). To discover its origin, make a DC 11 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If
successful, roll a d4. The sound is (1) Near (2) Far (3-4) Wherever you are.
147
69
This area is littered with the corpses of a particular type of animal. But what killed them
all? Make a DC 13 + tier Wisdom (Nature) check to discover what caused the death of
these poor creatures. If successful, use keywords or Mythic event meaning tables to
generate details.
70
A holy (or unholy) symbol is marked on the wall in blood. Make a DC 13 + tier Intelligence
(Religion) check to see if you can determine what deity this symbol represents. If successful,
decide what the deity is based on the current quest context, or devise a dice roll to come up
with a random god. This god will now form one of the threads of your solo adventure. The
next time you roll for monsters with any system, roll twice and choose the result.
71
You see a potential mount nearby, roaming wild, complete with saddle. Obviously, this
creature has lost its former master. The mount is a (1) Mastiff (2) Donkey (3) Pony (4)
Draft Horse (5) Riding Horse (6) Warhorse. Make a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
The DC is 10 + the result of the d6 roll. If successful, you gain this mount.
72
A random member of your adventuring party slips on some loose rubble and rolls their
ankle! Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom (Medicine) check to treat this sprain or the character’s
move speed is reduced by half until they complete a long rest.
73
One character in the party seems very preoccupied, distracted by some thought. They are
certainly not themselves, and you get the feeling that they may be wrestling with some
internal struggle. Will this affect their ability to cope with stressful situations? Make a DC
13 + tier Wisdom (Insight) check. If unsuccessful, the character makes their next 3 d20
rolls with disadvantage. If successful, you talk with the character and attempt to get to the
bottom of the problem. Make a DC 11 + tier Charisma (Persuasion) check. If successful,
they are able to get over the problem and focus on the task at hand (use keywords to
determine what the problem was, or roll on an event meaning or threads table if you have
one). If unsuccessful, the character makes their next 2 d20 rolls at disadvantage.
74
A strong, rushing body of water courses through this area. You can see some object at the
midway point, a statue or some other heavy object which the water cannot move. To
inspect this object, make a DC 15 + tier Strength (Athletics) check. If successful, you
successfully inspect the object. Roll on an event meaning or keywords table to provide you
with some detail as to what it is and whether it appears to be connected to your quest (add a
clue point if it does).
75
Strange plants grow here that appear to bear spores on their flowers. You have no idea
what effect these spores will have if disturbed and dispersed into the air. Make a DC 15 +
tier Dexterity (Stealth) check to move through this area. If you fail, you inadvertently
knock one or more of the plants and disperse these spores into the air. Make a DC 15 + tier
Constitution saving throw. If unsuccessful, take (tier x 2) d8 poison damage.
76
You arrive at a strange monument. It is a robed female who holds a priceless-looking gem
in her hand, balanced on her fingertips. Examining the statue closely, you see that the arm
appears to be weighted, a lever of some sort. Removing it (if you wish to do so) will be very
tricky and might require replacing it with a stone or other object of similar weight. To
attempt to do this make a DC 17 + tier Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
If successful, roll a d4 to discover what you have gained:
(1) Garnet - 100gp
(2) Topaz - 500 gp
(3) Star ruby - 1000 gp
(4) Diamond - 5000 gp.
77
You can hear a knocking sound coming from somewhere ahead. Is it the sound of someone
hammering? Make a DC 11 + tier Wisdom (Perception) check to discern more about the
nature of the sound. If successful, roll keywords to provide more information.
148
78
You enter a strange area where a dark, bluish energy suffuses everything. If there are living
things here, they are struggling for life, and you yourself feel lethargic, as if you are falling
under some enchantment or curse.
Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Arcana) check to discern more about the nature of this
phenomenon. If successful, you have advantage on a subsequent DC 14 + tier Constitution
saving throw which you must make now. If unsuccessful, take one level of exhaustion.
79
You see an altar where a relic of some kind rests on a pedestal. Coming near, however, you
find it difficult to proceed, to get near this relic. Then, painted on the floor at the base of the
pedestal you see several runes. Make a DC 14 + tier Arcana check to discern the nature of
these apparently protective runes. Perhaps, if you are able to recall some lore about them,
you can find a way to deactivate this magical field.
If you are successful in the Arcana check, and then you have a spell such as dispel magic, roll
twice on the Uncommon Magic Items table (p.180) and choose the result.
80
You find strange markings here in a language you don’t understand. Did some ancient
civilization live here at some stage in the distant past? Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence
(History) check. If successful, you have advantage on all Intelligence checks for the
remainder of this quest.
81
You find an odd device embedded in the rock. It is unclear what this does, but it obviously
has some purpose. Make a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check. If successful,
choose one of the following effects, depending on the context of your quest. Or roll a d4.
(1) You discover a secret door.
(2) You discover the entrance to a dungeon.
(3) A trap, locked door or other feature encountered somewhere nearby is disabled /
opened.
(4) Use keywords to determine the effect.
82
Outdoors: The terrain is strange in this area, as if some beast or natural phenomenon has
altered it in some way. Make a DC 11 + tier Intelligence (Nature) check. If successful, use
keywords to determine why the terrain here is the way it is.
Indoors: Re-roll for a different skill challenge if you wish.
83
You discover a body dressed in strange ceremonial garb, as of a priest or acolyte. Make a
DC 12 + tier Intelligence (Religion) check. If successful, you have advantage on
Intelligence checks related to cults and religion for the rest of this quest, and you cannot be
surprised by cultists or other enemies of a religious nature.
84
Your enemy, if you even know what they are, seems elusive. No matter how you search for
them, the web they have woven is strange and at times hard to decipher. There are traces of
their handiwork that you have found, but nothing that allows you to know their true
motive. You take a moment to stop and consider what their master plan might be, based on
all that you have seen so far.
Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Insight) check. If successful, gain an Inspiration.
85
You feel a twinge in your neck. For some reason, perhaps you have not been drinking
enough water or have not eaten for a while, you feel a splitting headache coming on. It is so
severe that you fear it might compromise your prowess in battle.
Make a DC 12 + tier Wisdom (Medicine) check. If unsuccessful, make your next three
attack rolls at disadvantage. You may make the Medicine check with advantage if you have
an herbalism kit.
86
You have a strange feeling that you can’t shake. It’s as if eyes are watching you, from
somewhere hidden perhaps.
Make a DC 14 + tier Wisdom (Perception) check. If successful, roll a d4.
(1) Someone is watching from a concealed place nearby, possibly a hidden room.
149
(2) Someone is observing you magically.
(3) Someone is using a tiny creature as a familiar to spy on you.
(4) A member of your party is carrying an object which someone has cast a spell on
that enables them to track your movements.
Decide what in-game effects this result has on your quest.
87
The rigours of travel and adventure are taking their toll and you and any companions you
have with you. It might also be some sort of enchantment, but all of a sudden you are struck
with a ravenous hunger and parched thirst. If you have not eaten today, you must
immediately take rations. If you have no rations, you will have to forage. Make a Wisdom
(Survival) check, DC 9 + tier if outdoors, DC 14 + tier if indoors. On a fail, take one level of
exhaustion.
88
You reach a barrier where a spectral figure bars the way forward. “Stop, travelers!” it
addresses you. “You shall go no further!”
This spectral figure is blocking the way. You must either succeed on a DC 17 + tier
Charisma (Intimidation) or Charisma (Persuasion) check. Otherwise, based on your PC tier,
encounter the following:
• Tier 1: 1 x shadow per character (if level 1, max 1 shadow per party)
• Tier 2: 1 x wight per character
• Tier 3: 1 x wraith per character
• Tier 4: 1 x alhoon per character
89
Off to the side of your path, a glimmer catches your eye. You move closer and see small
crystals that catch the light and appear to glow with a strange radiance. A DC 14 + tier
Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals that these are arcane crystals. A spellcaster can take one
of these, and cast 2 level 1 or 1 level 2 spell into it for later use, following the same rules as
a ring of spell storing. You find 1d4 crystals. The crystal can only be used once in this way. If
you fail the Arcana check, you are not privy to this knowledge and would not know the
crystals can be used in this way. Each crystal can also be sold as a common magic item (if
unused).
90
You hear a cracking sound, and look up to see a large rock or piece of masonry falling
towards you! Make a DC 10 + tier Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check,
taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save.
91
Your immediate area is a bit of a mess, with small to medium piles of detritus lying on the
floor. A DC 12 + tier Intelligence (Investigation) check will reveal a small chest containing
a CR 1 treasure hoard.
92
Is there an NPC with you? If not, reroll. If so, continue reading.
You get the feeling (possibly as a result of certain recent events) that the NPC
accompanying you is not telling you everything they know. Make a DC 12 + tier Wisdom
(Insight) check. If successful, make an oracle roll (with the likelihood at “likely”) to
determine if they do know something else (possibly related to your quest). If they do, roll
for keywords to determine the nature of this information.
93
You encounter a shrine to an obscure god, surrounded by ritual offerings and several
corpses. Make a DC 13 + tier Intelligence (Religion) check to discern the nature of this
dark god, their name, and possibly the motives behind this horrific ritual. If successful, you
will have advantage on checks to determine surprise against cultists or other beings
engaged in similar rituals, for the rest of this quest.
94
Strange animals are dwelling a little way ahead, but are as yet unaware of your presence.
They appear harmless, but could stampede if alarmed. Make a DC 15 + tier Dexterity
(Stealth) or Wisdom (Animal Handling) check to move through this area. If you fail, the 
150
beasts panic and stampede, looking to escape. In that case, make a DC 16 + tier Dexterity
(Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check to get out of the way or take (tier x 3) d6
bludgeoning damage.
95
You reach a door which has a magical talking mouth. It demands you tell it one truth and
one lie, and it has to guess which is truth. It tells you, if you succeed in fooling it, it will
open and reveal its secrets. If you are outdoors, you encounter a structure with this door as
the entrance.
Make a DC 15 + tier Charisma (Deception) check. If you succeed, you gain entrance
through the door. Use keywords to determine what secrets you gain access to here -
something directly relevant to your quest.
96
You find a flickering portal - a shimmering rip in the air. The image behind it stutters and
changes from moment to moment. If you succeed on a DC 14 + tier Intelligence (Arcana)
check you can stabilise the portal for a few seconds to travel anywhere you want within 100
miles (If you fail the check by 5 or more, you end up in a random location 100 miles away).
97
You come across a small band of four men encamped around a cooking fire. On seeing you
one of them calls out, “Greetings good friend! It has been a long time since we have been in
a stranger’s company and have grown quite bored with each other. Please, come join us and
tell us of your adventures.” Make a DC 11 + tier Charisma (Performance) check to entertain
the men with stories of your exploits. On a success the group becomes friendly to you and
gives you some information about a new or current quest (roll on keyword or event
meaning tables). On a fail, one of the men draws his bandit’s scimitar and points it in your
direction as the others circle around you. “Hmmm....not all that impressive I’m afraid. Now
give us all your gold!” Encounter (tier x 1) thugs.
98
You feel an ancient force here, but cannot tell whether it is benign or malevolent. Make a
DC 13 + tier Intelligence (Arcana) check. If successful, roll on the Boon table (p.152). If
unsuccessful, roll a d4. (1-3) Roll on Bane table (p.157). (4) Roll on Boon table (p.152).
99
You find a ring. Make a DC 15 + tier Intelligence (Arcana) check to recognize that this is a
ring of mind shielding. There is a random NPC's soul within the ring and If any character
decides to put it on, the NPC's soul may interact telepathically with the mind of the
character wearing it. If the character succeeded on the check, they will be aware that the
ring is causing this, otherwise they will simply hear voices and may think they are losing
their mind. This might continue until they come across someone (such as a mage) who can
tell them why they are hearing these voices, and identify the ring.
Once per day, the wearer may try a DC 19 + tier Persuasion check to convince the soul of
the random NPC to depart for the afterlife and vacate the ring. Regardless of there being a
soul or not in the ring, the character wearing it can benefit from all of its characteristics.
The player can decide whether completing a side quest will be enough to convince the soul
within the ring to depart for the afterlife.
100
Time passes, and you find you have nodded off and woken up inside some sort of dream
world. Make a DC 19 + tier Wisdom saving throw to escape immediately and wake up in
the real world. If you fail this saving throw, you must perform a minor quest within this
world. All skills and rolls are based on your Charisma modifier. You have to find the way
out of this world, which means making a new DC 19 + tier Wisdom saving throw at the
beginning of each new scene or story point. Everything you see is strange, especially the
monsters. The rules of science do not necessarily apply.

You find a stricken individual, slumped against the wall of the room/passage and raving to
themselves incoherently. They have obviously been involved in something highly
traumatic which has robbed them of their wits.
2 This area of the dungeon has fallen into disrepair. The passage ahead looks dangerous, like
it could cave in at any moment. You will need to proceed with extreme caution.
3 An almighty roar fills the passages, echoing around you. It seems to be coming from [d4]
(1-2) Nearby (3-4) Far away.
4
A drunk dwarf is staggering down the passage towards you, arm in arm with a similarly
drunk halfling. They are regaling each other with outlandish stories of their adventures,
and do not initially notice you.
5 You find an adventurer’s corpse (roll on NPC tables to discover details). They have an
interesting [d6] (1-2) Note (3-4) Bounty (5-6) Map on their person.
6 You find a humanoid child, hiding behind a pillar. They do not speak your language and
you have no idea what they are doing here.
7 Within a room, a floating orb sits atop a plinth. You approach… the orb is translucent, and
many colours swirl within it… what do you see?
8 You see what looks like a portal ahead. The air is stale here, however, and the walls drip
with some foul contagion...
9
A magical darkness permeates this area, originating from a point you cannot see. Suddenly,
a priest comes into view, smiling and holding forth a holy symbol. “Ah!” he cries. “You’ve
come, at last!”
10
You discover a sinkhole in the floor of the passage. Peering down, you see several levels of
dungeon passages below you, but the sinkhole (natural?) descends out of sight.
11
There is a celebration going on somewhere nearby… the sound of goblets being clinked,
wine being poured, even a band of minstrels… but there is a smell hanging heavy in the
air… the smell of rotting flesh. Of death… or undeath?
134
12 A notice is tacked onto a wall. “The fight for the prize begins soon. The victor will claim
the symbol of our deity! You will be witness to a great contest…”
13
You come across a creature, which has been wounded. Roll a d8 to find out what type of
wounded creature you have come across: (1) aberration (2) beast (3) elemental (4) fiend
(5) humanoid (6) monstrosity (7) undead (8) dragon. It is not combative. Perhaps an
intelligent creature capable of communication might negotiate with you if you can help to
heal it. However, do so with care!
14
Huge fungi grow in this area, standing as tall as an ogre! Moving through, you must be
careful not to bump them or they will release spores. Make a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth)
check. If you fail, roll three times on the Keywords table (p.167) to discover the nature of
the effect the spores have on you.
15 A sprite, or some sort of small creature, is down the end of a passageway, beckoning to you.
“This way! Yes, come, follow!”
16 You feel imbued with a heroic spirit. The god of courage has smiled on you, granting you a
boon. Roll on the Boon table (p.152).
17
You happen upon an underground settlement of some kind. If this is in an established
dungeon, perhaps it is a colony of tiny creatures, or an enclave of hermits. If in caverns, or
the Underdark, it could be svirfneblin or duergar or drow perhaps. They are not initially
aware of your presence and you have the opportunity of observing from afar until you
decide to interact.
18
The ground begins to shudder, and dust falls from the roof. Perhaps even a chunk of
masonry or two falls to the floor. Is this an earthquake, or some huge creature
approaching? Either way, it’s seismic.
19
You meet a friendly NPC who immediately engages you in conversation. However, they
are accompanied by a powerful stench which almost has you gagging. Make a DC 12
Constitution saving throw. If you fail, you are violently ill.
20 An adventuring party is ahead, you think. You can hear conversation, several different
voices, and they speak in a mixture of Common, Dwarvish and Elvish.
21
Small alcoves in either wall house icons to a range of deities you have never seen before.
The workmanship looks ancient.
22 Within a room, atop a table, you find a fascinating object: an intricately crafted miniature
version of a dungeon. This dungeon? Who crafted this and for what purpose?
23 Rows of sarcophagi line either side of this room. Their plaques bear fascinating, and very
old inscriptions.
24
You stop in your tracks. Ahead (in a room or passage, generate next bit of the dungeon to
find out what) you see a mage of some kind deep in the performance of a ritual. But you
have no way of knowing their nature, or the nature of the ritual.
25 The sound of rushing water comes from nearby. An underground river?
26-
30 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Skill Challenge table, p.139 (3-4) Level-appropriate easy encounter
31
A trio of gnome artificers are here, hard at work studying some phenomenon, device,
construct or other thing. They are escorted by two hulking mercenary warriors. A
scientific expedition, it would seem. Stealth roll, DC 14, to see if you are noticed, initially.
135
32
A noxious, yellowish slime covers the walls and floor here. Moving through is going to
require agility, and who knows what the effect could be if any of the stuff lands on you…
(Use keywords to determine)
33
A small humanoid runs past and tosses an item into your hands. It is a [d6] (1) Ring (2)
Rod (3) Scroll (4) Staff (5) Wand (6) Weapon. They are gone before you can respond,
calling these words back over their shoulder. “Your problem now!”
Is something pursuing them? Or have they just offloaded a potentially cursed item on you?
34
There is a lot of noise and hubbub coming from ahead. The clank of steel-shod boots, the
shouting of commands. You appear to be approaching a barracks of some kind, and it
sounds like they are mobilising for battle!
35
You find a room filled with cages. 1d6 of these cages have captives inside them. You find
any combination of the following: [1d20] (1) Rich Noble (2) Charming thief (3) Talkative
explorer (4) Whiny scientist (5) Gruff admiral (6) Innocent shapeshifter (7) Dishevelled
navigator (8) Greedy priest (9) Apathetic immortal (10) Ignorant royal (11) Distracted
artificer (12) Impatient engineer (13) Xenophobic artist (14) Sympathetic monk (15)
Agitated cultist (16) Angry town guard (17) Affectionate merchant (18) Cursed aberration
(19) Shrewd judge (20) Gloomy assassin.
36
Ahead, you see the passage seemingly dissolve into nothingness. A void opens up before
you. Where a passage was before, now is a swirling, nondescript energy… a portal of some
kind? You are hesitant to continue, but also intrigued… Should you back away and try
another path, or throw yourself into this strange energy and see where it leads you?
37
At the side of the passage, a beautiful little font, ornately crafted with figures of benevolent,
childlike gods, receives silvery water into its stone basin. It radiates a soft, healing energy.
Drinking from this font will restore 4d4+8 hp to your character, but you can gain this
benefit only once.
38
A magical darkness descends. And in this darkness, a voice starts whispering to you, about
something from your past that no-one could possibly know about. When the darkness
finally lifts, no-one is there… Is someone playing mind games with you, or are you going
insane?
39 If you have an NPC with you, they begin acting strangely… as if this place is getting to
them, affecting them in some way.
40
An offensive smell reaches your nostrils… You come across a pit where all sorts of refuse
have been dumped. There must be a humanoid settlement nearby that has seen fit to fill
this area with their trash, with no consideration for the other inhabitants of this dungeon.
Or, perhaps this is ancient refuse, left here by a group of creatures who have since departed.
Either way, it smells utterly repulsive, and you suspect some foul rot-dweller may be
lurking in there...
41 You find a collection of items in a bag which you are trying hard to make sense of. Roll five
times on the Items table (p.163). Who did this belong to?
42
Rounding a corner, you see a door hanging off its hinges, and a procession of creatures
running in and out of a room carrying various looted items. A stash of some kind has been
discovered, and it is a free-for-all. The stash consists of one of the following items [d10]
(1-2) Food (3-4) Alcohol (5-6) Weapons (7-8) Wood for burning (9-10) Random
assortment of all of the above.
43 A fresh smell comes to you, as if there was an opening to the outside somewhere near, a
vent of fresh air. Then, you round a corner, and see a tree, somehow magically growing in 
136
the middle of a widened section of passage. It is suffused with magical light, as if suspended
in a bubble, and sits in the middle of a richly-carved dark stone circle which contains the
soil it grows in.
44
Whoever your quarry is that you are stalking, the reason you entered this dungeon, you
find a valuable clue relating to them. You receive this information in one of the following
forms [d6] (1) Graffiti (2) Carved inscription (3) Note (4) Disembodied Voice (5) NPC (6)
Overheard conversation.
45 A small pebble hits you on the back of the head. Turning around, you cannot see who
threw it.
46 Entering a natural cavern, you happen upon a pile of gore and dead bodies. This looks like
the food stash of some creature, but the smell coming off it is horrific. What lurks nearby?
47
Strange runes glow with an arcane energy, painted on the floor in this area. Make a DC 18
Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Wisdom) check. If successful, you have seen these
runes somewhere before and know something of their meaning.
48
A statue in the middle of this area looms high over you. Then, it opens its mouth and
speaks to you! Roll on a keywords table or whatever tool you deem appropriate to
determine its message.
49
An abyss runs across the passageway, dropping down out of sight. Looking down, you see
the entrances to various other tunnels, as if peering down through the middle of a colony of
insects. The only way across this expanse is a series of floating discs…
50 Entering a chamber, you see a machine or contraption of some sort at its centre, whirring
and clicking away. What is this device and what is its purpose?
51-
55 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Boon table, p.152 (3-4) level-appropriate medium encounter
56 Blood is pooled through this area, along with arrows, broken weapons, broken crates and
other detritus. A pitched battle has gone on here, but you see no bodies… very strange.
57 A lone humanoid is wandering the corridors, muttering to themself about how they have
been exiled, and how they will get revenge on those that cast them out.
58 Water drips from the ceiling above, forming pools here and there. Where is this water
coming from… and is it indeed water at all?
59
You hear the sound of a waterfall from somewhere nearby, and also a mechanical noise of
some kind, a machine-like sound… Then, above that, the chatter of voices, although due to
the sound of the water you can’t make out what language they are speaking. What is going
on up ahead?
60
This area contains ancient frescoes, some of them ruined, but some remarkably wellpreserved. They reveal important lore about the quest you are on, specifically in relation to
important people related to that quest, and their history.
61
You find a mirror, a small hand-held mirror on the floor. Picking it up, you see that it
appears some creature (monster? NPC?) is trapped inside it. How did they come to be here,
and why was this artifact simply left lying on the floor?
62
A lever is in the left wall. There is no indication of what it controls, or that it controls
anything at all. Perhaps it is defunct. But there is only one way to find out…
137
[d6] Pulling the lever (1) Opens a trapdoor (2) Releases acid rain into the corridor (3)
Opens a dimensional portal (4) Opens a previously locked door in a nearby part of the
dungeon (5) Triggers a spear trap (6) Opens a secret door nearby.
63
You suddenly emerge on a mezzanine-type floor overlooking a large chamber below.
Something is going on down there. Creatures are congregating, but they haven’t seen you
yet.
[d6] (1) Gladiatorial battle (2) Summoning ritual (3) Court trial (4) Meeting of cultists or
other group around a large table (5) Battle between monster factions (6) Leader addressing
a large group.
64
The relentless rhythmic thud of large drums is vibrating from somewhere distant. Is it
coming from underneath you? You can feel the pounding through the floor.
65
A broken construct lies wrecked in this area. It has been partially, but not wholly, looted
for parts. [d6] (1) Retriever (2) Iron Golem (3) d4 Iron Cobras (4) Oaken Bolter (5)
Animated Armour (6) Hellfire Engine.
66
You enter a chamber which appears to be a wizard’s or artificer’s laboratory. Plenty of
interesting artifacts, and quite a few blueprints and other things as well. Roll a d100. If
under 20, you find a common magic item. If under 10, you find an uncommon magic item.
67 Several boiling cauldrons are in this area, giving off bizarre fumes.
68
You emerge in a chamber which is split into two levels, lower and higher. Two groups of
humanoids are battling each other, one on the lower ground and one on the higher ground.
Neither have noticed you as yet.
69 A strange field of coloured light is ahead, dancing hypnotically. Make a DC 14 Wisdom
save or you are entranced by this. Who set up this magical trap, and why?
70
You come across several humanoid (or possibly giant) creatures, rolling around on the
floor laughing. Something has amused them, but what? Perhaps this is some magic, and
you are in danger of falling under it also…
71 A series of huge pillars line both sides of this corridor, which is good as you can hear a
creature of quite some size approaching! Might be time to hide…
72
Make a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. If unsuccessful, you fail to notice a skulk deftly
relieving you of wealth. Choose either a random item or 2d100 gp to remove from your
inventory. If successful, you catch him in the act, and he immediately flees. Make one
opportunity attack and then pursue if you wish, encountering 1 skulk.
73
There are shallow channels in the floor here, in an interesting, symmetrical pattern. You
can find no clue as to their purpose, but a DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check might
reveal something. If successful, roll on Keywords table (p.167).
74
A room containing chests full of mundane items. Roll ad20 times on the Items table (p.163),
discarding inappropriate results like rubble, broken wood etc. All results should be things
that have reasonably belonged to someone at some stage.
75 The smell of food cooking comes to you, making your mouth water.
76-
80 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Bane table, p.157 (3-4) level-appropriate hard encounter
81 A group of creatures is ahead, working on renovating a section of the tunnel. What are
they doing, and what are their motivations? [d6] (1) Clearing an obstruction (2) 
138
Constructing a trap (3) Tunnelling a new passage into the rock (4) Decorating this area of
the tunnel with a mural or runes (5) Mining for minerals (6) Forcing slaves to do their
work (roll again to determine what that work is).
82 You hear the sound of musical instruments, many playing together, but discordant, and
well out-of-tune with each other.
83 Within a pool, a flawless gem shimmers.
84
A burning energy begins to take hold of everything… flammable objects nearby burst into
flame, metal objects like torch sconces and doorknobs begin to glow red hot, and
everything is suffused with heat. What creature or curse is causing this?
85 Concealed from prying eyes, you stumble somehow across a small library of rare tomes.
What strange volumes do you find in here?
86
Conscription patrol. A band of humanoids is approaching. They are searching for recruits
for their army in an upcoming battle against an enemy force. Are you allied with their
cause?
87 A haunting moan, as of many tormented voices together, begins to come to you, quietly, on
the air. It is impossible to determine the source of this disturbing noise.
88 A bridge extends over (1) Natural geysers (2) Acid pools (3) Lava (4) Dimensional rift.
89
In the middle of a room, a pendulum swings from side to side, accompanied by a loud
ticking noise. Runes are inscribed around all the walls; every surface is covered with
writing in... [d6]
(1) Dwarvish (2) Abyssal (3) Infernal (4) Undercommon (5-6) Whatever is most relevant to
your adventure. What is the purpose of this device?
90
An idol on a pedestal speaks to you as you pass. “You have forgotten something of your
past, traveller. I know all secrets… do you wish me to tell it to you?” If your PC has
wishes, this Idol of Memory will reveal a hidden fact about their past.
91 As you progress through this area, a succession of ghostly apparitions appear on either side
of you, telling you to turn back, that you are entering an area of ancient evil.
92
A huge, beautifully-crafted fountain depicts a magical beast and a greenish water spouts
from its mouth, filling the pool below the fountain. 50% chance this area is inhabited by
humanoids.
93
A portal, swirling with planar energy, stands in this area. On the steps leading up to it, you
see a note held in place by a stone. It reads. “I waited, but you did not come. Now I go to do
the deed. Come find me if you have the courage.”
94 A huge cage, like a birdcage, is suspended from the roof in this area. However, several of
the bars are bent open as if what was in it has escaped.
95 Ahead, a group of humanoids is towing a large cart carrying [d6] (1) Junk (2) Minerals (3)
Prisoners (4) Military supplies (5) Food supplies (6) A captive and angry monster.
96-
100 Level appropriate deadly encounter

You hear rumours of a nomadic cult that has taken up residence in an abandoned building
in a deserted part of town. Who knows what they are planning, but there are strange
sounds and lights coming from that area.
2
A strongman is exhibiting a show of strength at the side of the street, and has drawn a
large crowd. However, this burly character looks dejected, exhausted, and the announcer
who is narrating his feats appears to be the one in control. Does he have the poor brute
magically enslaved? Or is some other form of duress going on here?
3 A guard patrol suddenly runs past you. “To the gates, to the gates!” they are yelling. “We
are being attacked!”
4 You pass a market stall. The stallholder is being harassed by someone in a loud voice. “I
know you have it, you liar! Give it to me now!”
5 Looking down an alleyway, you can see a figure being set upon by three larger individuals -
this definitely does not seem to be a fair fight...
6 Some sort of coloured smoke is billowing out of the windows of a nearby building! Some
sort of alchemical chaos perhaps? Or something else...
7
“Accepting all comers!” a huge bugbear yells as he walks down the street, ringing a hand
bell. “Tonight, at the Ancient Chalice! Pit fights, only the dirtiest, meanest fighters will
survive. 500 gold prize money! We’ll take anyone!”
8 You pass a row of abandoned multi-storey buildings, each one with parchment nailed to the
front door. They all read the same: Condemned. Do not enter.
9 A large, walled urban garden is here. The sign outside informs you that the garden holds
some extremely rare and exotic species.
10
An old man telling a story has gathered a large group of children and adults around him,
entranced by his narration. It seems he was a former adventurer and has some enthralling
tales to tell.
127
11
A streetside merchant is selling baubles, inside which strange colours and scenes are
swirling. He tells you that at the right phase of the moon, you can enter one of these
baubles as a small pocket dimension, which you can shape to your liking. He’s asking 500gp
for each of them. But there is an element of shadiness to this merchant and you perhaps
don’t trust him...
12
A local artist is exhibiting works in a gallery. Visitors have reported that his images are so
dark and evocative that he must have had some horrific experiences. It’s even said that
some descend into madness after viewing these works. Whatever the case, the exhibition
seems to be attracting a lot of attention.
13
A cart passes by, built of wood and metal, with bars over the windows. Passers-by remark
that it is an infamous criminal, finally caught, who is being transported to the town jail.
“They never thought they’d catch him,” someone says. “He’s been eluding them for years!”
14
Someone is tolling the alarm bell nearby. Has a fire broken out? Magical chaos? Some sort
of catastrophe has occurred that is serious enough to call the town guard over.
15
You pass a huge, sprawling graveyard, covering a large area. All the town’s dead are buried
here, and it’s said that some tombs connect to a deeper network of catacombs. Currently,
however, a crowd is gathered around a freshly-dug grave where a recently-deceased local
identity is being interred. This person, you hear someone nearby remark, died in extremely
mysterious circumstances. There are many unanswered questions...
16
You pass a magician’s guildhall. It is very active at the moment - a steady stream of mages
is coming and going from the door. Inquiring of one of them, you are informed that this
guildhall is currently hosting the annual general meeting to discuss the state of magic in
the realm.
17
A royal procession is about to begin. The Queen/King/Emperor/Empress is due to pass
along the street you are on with their entourage very shortly. You see the town guard
doing a preliminary sweep of buildings, checking for potential assassins or evil-doers.
“Make way!” someone shouts. “Make way for our glorious ruler!” Adults and children alike
are beginning to throng either side of the street in anticipation of the regal parade.
18
Striking up a conversation with a local, you are told of the old town, a deserted, partially
ruined quarter that was recently overrun by monsters. Much slaughter and devastation
happened there. “No-one ventures there now,” the local informs you. “It’s said that there
are still horrors lurking there, waiting for the foolish to venture in.”
19
You catch a snatch of conversation from two passing locals. “I overheard them talking
about it in The Gobbling Gander. Yes, a heist, planned for tonight! The Guild of
Scoundrels has never been so daring as to attempt something like this!”
20
A small temple is having a festival which involves a bizarre tradition. [d4] (1) Feeding all
passers-by, regardless of religion, until they are so full, they can barely move (2) Treating
all visitors to the temple like royalty, washing their feet, massaging their shoulders and
generally pampering them (3) Hurling insults at people passing by the temple (4) Allowing
the children to order the adults about and treat them like slaves for a day.
After this tradition is observed, it is customary for a high-ranking priest to tell a story
about their god or goddess’s mythology.
21
You pass a grand building under construction. Teams of dwarven stonemasons are crafting
this building, working many intricate details into the masonry. Each of the carvings has a
story behind it, as the foreman is only too eager to inform you. This building is going to be
[d4] (1) An embassy for the dwarven kingdom of _____ (2) An urban residence for a 
128
dwarven ruler (3) a temple to a prominent dwarven god (4) A grand tomb, commissioned
by the devoted followers of a noted dwarven priest or mage.
22 You begin seeing a poster issuing a reward for a notorious criminal. The thing is, this
criminal bears a striking resemblance to a member of your adventuring party!
23 A duel is about to take place, in the middle of the street / town square / market between
two rival mages. By all indications, it’s going to get ugly!
24
There is a commodity shortage in this part of town (e.g., food/water/building supplies).
Perhaps the local government has placed restrictions on this area because of perceived
unlawful behaviour, but whatever the case, the citizenry is on the brink of rioting.
25 Since you’ve been in this town, you’ve noticed quite a few suspicious-looking individuals
all sporting the same tattoo. You wonder what it could signify.
26-
30 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Skill Challenge table, p.139 (3-4) Level-appropriate easy encounter
31
A noble passes in a litter carried by servants. “Get out of the way, filthy peasants!” the
noble rudely shouts as the litter jostles past.
32
You hear that a huge ship has just arrived in port from a foreign land. No-one has ever
encountered these peoples before, and they are looking to make contact with locals to learn
more about local customs and culture. They also brought some fascinating items with them
to trade.
33
A violent gang conflict (perhaps between two rival thieves’ guilds or other factions) has
spilled out into the streets. It’s open warfare out here, with abductions and assassinations
happening in broad daylight.
34
From a second-story window, you hear a halfling woman singing a pretty song about an
ancient hero and their conquests. The story is very descriptive, and you are perhaps
overcome with a desire to know more about this legend.
35
A worried-looking novice mage is making their way down the street carrying an armful of
scrolls. “Can’t be late!” she is saying to herself. “Mistress will kill me if I’m late! If only I
had someone to help me with these scrolls!”
36 You see an agile figure bounding across rooftops, carrying something. From quite a way
behind, pursuers are yelling at them to stop.
37
An eviction is in progress. You see the town guard forcibly removing a family and their
grandfather from their house. A woman is screaming: “This is a disgrace! Do you know
who my father is? You have no respect! Wait till the duke hears about this, he’ll have your
heads!”
38
There is a crack of thunder and rain begins falling very heavily. Stall holders and other
vendors begin packing up, and citizens doing their business about town begin running for
cover. It is an absolute downpour. You see a nearby tavern which looks cosy and inviting.
39
This area of the town is deserted… every house barred, condemned. Then you see them,
piled up in the middle of a square. Bodies. A tolling bell catches your attention. “Bring out
yer dead!”
40
You see a man running, looking terrified, clutching a relic of some kind. Then, some
distance behind him, a mob of well-armed female priests.
129
41 A desperate-looking half-elf peasant clutching a pitchfork asks you if you’ve seen anyone
who looks like him pass by recently. He refuses to explain or give his name.
42 A guard checkpoint stops everyone except a noble and his entourage.
43
You hear word that a ship’s captain is sitting in a nearby tavern, looking for adventurers to
accompany him as protection on his next expedition to the outer islands. The pay is terrible
and the food worse, but he promises one thing: it won’t be boring.
44 An exhibition is in town featuring artifacts from far-flung countries that most people have
never heard of.
45
Passing an open doorway, you catch a strange scent, and cannot help but glimpse several
drowsy-looking people stumbling between rooms. A female, seated by the door, notices
your interest. “Fancy a taste?” she asks. “Go see Delren in the back room, he’ll sort you
out.”
46
A warrior stumbles out of an alleyway into the middle of the street, a sword impaling him
from front to back. “Stop… him…” he manages to say before collapsing onto his knees. He
is alive, but only barely.
47 A wizard is casting divination spells at passers-by and then tossing off idle remarks about
the person’s future.
48 “Be on the lookout,” a small company of guards is announcing loudly as they patrol the
streets. “Prisoners escaped from the tower!”
49
You see a poster. The local library is getting overstocked and is having a sale of some of its
books. Some old books of redundant maps that no-one uses anymore (as they refer to the
ancient kingdom, not the current one) and other potentially interesting but obscure tomes
are being sold for a fairly reasonable price (100-300 gp per book. depending on rarity).
50
You spy a large building ahead which is subject to some strange metaphysical anomaly.
[d4] (1) The building floats (2) The building is covered by a dark shroud resembling
night-time (3) The building is surrounded by light patterns (4) The building is partially
spectral (transparent) and you can see its interior.
51-
55 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Boon table, p.152 (3-4) Level-appropriate medium encounter.
56 A young woman is passing out wooden tokens for a free drink at a local tavern.
57
A boat is passing in a nearby canal. It is [d4] (1) A royal barge (2) A goods freighter (3) A
pirate or explorer vessel of some description (4) A mage’s ship. If the city is landlocked,
make it an airship instead.
58
If you have an NPC or sidekick, they are potentially kidnapped by a group of thugs while
you are distracted. You could choose this to happen to your PC instead, or your party could
witness a kidnapping.
59
You see workers loading a huge shipment into boats, or into carts if your settlement is
landlocked. You wonder what this shipment is, where it might be going, what it is, who it’s
for and whether they have protection on the journey.
60
A section of street has fallen into a sinkhole deep below, taking several houses with it. Who
knows why this happened, but it is unlikely that the inhabitants of the houses survived.
130
61
You pass a place of business where many vehicles are parked outside. (These could be any
sort of vehicle that fits with the lore of your world, from an oxcart to an airship). They are
offering passage to most major settlements in the realm. Fares start at 50 gp.
62
The panicked news comes to you through the city grapevine, and people are fleeing to
safety as a result. A famous local wizard, finally driven insane through his dabblings in
obscure subject areas, is on a rampage through the city, destroying everything in his path.
Authorities are unsure how to deal with him.
63
A stranger runs quickly past you, dropping a random item in your path. [d4] (1) Mundane
Item (Roll on Item table, p.163, until you get something that fits context) [2] Weapon [3]
Gems and money (roll on CR 1 hoard table, DMG or TSAT) [4] Common magic item.
64 The street suddenly goes empty but for one or two people, and in the next moment even
they are gone. You are alone… Where did everyone go? Then you hear it...
65 A poster announces the public reading of an obscure and arcane scroll recently discovered
by an eminent archaeologist in a forgotten tomb near to the city.
66
A huge team of workers is busy fixing this part of town. It turns out that this area of the
city houses catacombs which connect to the Underdark, through long networks of twisting
passages. Somehow, a purple worm found its way up here and burst through the surface,
destroying huge amounts of masonry, businesses, residences, ploughing through several
blocks of buildings. The damage was immeasurable and will take months to repair. Also, a
small company of men-at-arms is stationed there in case any other nasties come up from
below...
67 News comes to you of beggars and homeless being killed by some unknown terror...
68
A creature begins following you. [d10] (1-8) Beast, (9) Construct (10) Other. Choose a
level-appropriate creature familiar from SRD Monsters, Monster Manual or other
resource.
69
A large government building has a crowd protesting outside of it. They could be from a
peoples who have been mistreated by the ruling elite. But this is a situation that you know
of and has been going on in the realm for years. Decades, even.
70 This part of town bears some interesting ancient hieroglyphs etched on various historical
walls. Some of them are in a language that no-one has been able to decipher.
71 To their great surprise, one of your PCs sees someone from their old home town. This
NPC shares news of their hometown, as well as gibing access to some local networks.
72 You run into an NPC from a previous adventure. Perhaps they were evil and mended their
ways (or perhaps not), but anyway they have some interesting stories to tell.
73 You see an artisan sitting outside their workshop, finishing off some incredibly detailed
work while an apprentice looks on.
74
Two expert swordmasters are duelling it out in a public place. The exhibition has drawn a
crowd, but no mistake - this is a fight to the death, as evidenced by the expressions of
determination on the faces of the competitors.
75
You hear a voice in your head. “Do not be alarmed. I speak to you because I can, and
because I have seen you before. I do so through magic, but also because I need your
services. Come to me at the Inn of the Three Wands. It is hard to find, but you shall know
the way. If you do not wish to, forget I have spoken to you and continue on your way. I
shall not bother you again. But I promise you, it will be worth your while.”
131
76-
80 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Bane table, p.157 (3-4) level-appropriate hard encounter
81
You encounter a circus performing in a large plaza. Acrobats, jesters, storytellers,
puppeteers, illusionists, all manner of entertainers are here, and many interesting market
stalls to boot.
82 A trio of interesting-looking individuals - adventurers perhaps - blinks into view right in
front of you. “What… where are we?” one of them stammers.
83
Two halfling women, one old and one young, are walking past you. “It’s all right mother,”
the young one says. “It’s only for a little while. The locket should get us a nice purse of
gold, then we can be back under a roof before nightfall.”
The older one sobs. “That heartless wretch! Casting us out on the street like stray dogs!
That locket belonged to my grandmother!”
84
The local botanic gardens are a fascinating place. There is a section of the garden where
the foliage grows exceptionally thick, and some of the plants there are known to be quite
dangerous to walk near. The supposed reason is that there is a series of tunnels beneath the
gardens, and a powerful relic is hidden under that spot. No-one has ever been able to find
the entrance to this alleged dungeon however, and no-one knows if it is a relic that is
causing this verdant growth, or some other cause.
85
You notice guards stationed on the battlements around the city walls. Asking a passing
citizen why they are so vigilant, the citizen replies, “There were rumours that a nearby
giant colony was planning an attack… so, naturally, that’s got everyone worried.”
86
You pass a building which bears a plaque: “Alyssa Ibold, Scholar of the Realms. Detailed
knowledge on all countries and settlements within the known world. Consultations 10 sp
per hour.”
87
If one of your PCs worships a god, they see a festival in progress honouring their god. This
might be weird if their god is a rare one, but in that case, this is a rare sighting of public
practice of that religion. If it is a major religion, then this is a festival holiday. If this
doesn’t fit with your character, reroll.
88 Many guards are stationed on street corners, preventing access to several city blocks.
“Don’t go in there,” one of them tells you. “Trust me, you don’t want to go in there.”
89
You pass a high wall, overrun with creepers. Reaching the gate of this large compound, you
peer in to see a huge, dilapidated building, probably once glorious. A sign on the gate reads
Compassionate Asylum for Victims of Mind Magic.
90
There is a loud crack, and lightning strikes the ground mere feet away from you, filling the
air with a strange, burnt smell. Looking up, you see that it is a clear sky, not a cloud. So
where did that come from? Does someone powerful have designs on you?
91
Two friendly old wizards are using mage hand to put on a puppet show for local children.
The story, however, seems almost too fantastical to be true, and you find yourself drawn in.
Does this outlandish tale come from the wizards’ own experience?
92 A gnarled old streetside merchant, who looks like he’s seen some things in his time, is
selling pieces of monster anatomy and items made from said anatomy.
93
Some young apprentice mages are being bullied by some young warriors-in-training. A
classic jocks vs nerds scenario. As you watch, you see that one of the young mages is
quietly forming a spell between his hands… You have to see how this turns out!
132
94
A cartload of prisoners rumbles past. You see all sorts of faces in there, male and female,
human, orc, elf, halfling, but all having the look of professional soldiers.
“Heading to the prisoner of war camp, three miles out of town,” a passer-by remarks,
noticing your interest. “Enemy soldiers transported back here after the latest conflict. A
rebellion which the Empire just stamped out. Why they don’t just put them out of their
misery is beyond me.”
95
Camped out on the steps of city hall, a tribe of nomadic warriors has erected tents,
including a chief’s tent, has made campfires and are roasting a large dead animal on a spit.
The town guard are standing around, hesitant to ask these rugged-looking barbarians to
move on. Why have they travelled here, you wonder, so far from their homelands? Do they
have some issue with the ruling power?
96-
100
Level-appropriate deadly encounter

You find an assortment of personal possessions in this area. Roll 5 times on the Items table
(p.163), ignoring natural results such as rubble, leaves etc. Only things that would have
reasonably been possessions.
2
A large number of birds have amassed in an area ahead. Enough to make you wonder why
they are all there, filling every tree branch, perched on every boulder and available
surface...
3 You meet a local hunter setting traps in the area. She has some interesting information to
relate regarding things she has seen in her travels.
4
A malevolent, treacherous energy lurks in this area. The god of trickery is worming his
way into the minds of all. If you have any sidekicks with you, or if there is more than one
PC in your party, then have either a sidekick, PC or NPC make a Wisdom saving throw. If
they fail, they turn on your main character, attacking them with their most powerful attack.
The effect ceases as soon as this sidekick, PC or NPC either takes damage, or has a spell
such as remove curse cast on them. You could also play it like this: have your main PC make
a Wisdom save, and if they fail, they attack the NPC/sidekick.
5
An NPC (roll on NPC tables if you desire, or simply decide their characteristics) catches up
with you and begins asking all sorts of questions. “Where are you coming from? Have you
any tales to tell? What is your profession?” They come across as very eager and interested.
You’re not sure if they have any motives… perhaps they have just been without company
for some time.
6
You come across a section of forest that has been destroyed. A druid is in the process of
casting plant growth on various small plants to re-vegetate the area.
7 You come across an abandoned cabin, its door hanging off the hinges. Belongings are
scattered everywhere. There are traces of blood to be found, but no creatures in sight.
8 You pass a small inn. A wealthy noblewoman, just passing through, has stopped here and is
buying everyone drinks. It seems she has had great luck in business recently.
120
9
A local wizard is accepting visitors to his tower - a group of apprentices from a local
alchemy school, who have come to hear a lecture from him on the creation of exotic
potions.
10
A cart passes, being driven by a figure in a hood who does not address you in any way or
even look up from the reins. In the back are various cages and crates. Two of them are
covered with thick canvasses, and from within you hear a strange, feral barking and
yowling. There are creatures of some kind in there, but you don’t know exactly what
species.
11
A group of pilgrims are on a walking journey towards a temple no-one in the party has
heard of. They have been walking for some months already, picking up people along the
way.
12 You see a wanted poster. A notorious criminal is in the area. 10% chance it is someone you
know (NPC or even someone in the party).
13
You come across an ancient fortress that has been inhabited by a group of opportunistic
humanoids. They are currently practicing combat manoeuvres and preparing for
something. You are a little way off and they have not seen you (yet) but it appears
preparations are underway for some kind of combat action.
14
Roll a d4. (1) The air crackles with some unknown energy (2) The ground shakes (3) An
ominous peal of thunder resounds in the sky (4) The sun turns a dark shade of red.
Ominous portents all point towards some cataclysmic event. You don’t know what it is, but
in your soul, you feel as if something momentous has just happened or is about to happen.
15
Make a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. If unsuccessful, you fail to notice a [d6] (1-2)
Rope trap (3-4) Net trap (5-6) Pit trap which you blunder into. Moments later, cultists
emerge from the undergrowth and secure you in ropes. They will try to convert you to
their beliefs as part of an aggressive recruitment drive! They have already captured a dozen
or so people in this way. You will be subject to enchantment spells and may actually
succumb to believing their philosophy, at least for a while.
16 You see [d4] rangers who look like they are hot on the trial of something or someone.
They stop, crouching to the ground and examining signs in the dirt.
17
The smell of yeast and hops is heavy in the air. You emerge in a smallish open area where a
neatly-kept building stands beside a babbling brook. Dwarves and halflings are hard at
work, milling about this building and performing various jobs. A sign on the outside reads
“Stoutfolk Brewery.” (Or perhaps you’d rather come up with your own name!)
18
A shooting pain stabs through your head, nay, your very soul! You feel as though someone
is trying to control your mind with magic, or targeting you with some kind of psychic
attack.
19
You come across a merchant who is deep in haggling with a nobleman. The nobleman is
demanding that the merchant sell him some rare item the merchant has in their possession,
but the merchant is not budging, insisting that it is not for sale. The nobleman is getting
rather hot under the collar. What is this item that has them so fired up?
20
You enter an area where a gallows has been erected. A small crowd has gathered to witness
the execution of a monk who has been accused of spying on the local authorities for some
rival nation or faction.
21 A robbery has been foiled! Highwaymen are lying prone and bound at the side of the road,
and a group of passengers have disembarked from an ornate-looking carriage and are 
121
preparing to dispense some brutal justice to these unfortunate criminals. The carriage
driver and a slightly-dishevelled looking nobleman, bearing cudgels, have somehow got the
upper hand.
22
Something is approaching. You hear [d6] (1-2) The tread of many feet, as of an army (3-4)
A heavy tread, as of a large creature (5-6) The patter of many tiny feet, a large group of
smaller creatures. You will have time to hide and watch them go by with a successful DC
10 Dexterity (Stealth) check.
23
You chance upon a network of caves that look like they could have once been inhabited by a
tribe of humanoids.
24
You come across two carts which have collided badly. One of the carts overturned and
spilled its contents across the road, and now the owner of the goods is having a tantrum
and demanding the other cart driver pay for the ruined goods. However, as this is
happening, their argument is interrupted by a dull roar from something nearby...
25 A ruined hut is here, with its roof partially caved in.
26-
30 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Skill Challenge table (p.139) (3-4) Level-appropriate easy encounter
31
A piece of parchment is stuck into a tree with a dagger. The parchment is scrawled with
messy writing that looks like it was written by a child. It reads: “You are entering the
republic of the Forsaken Ones. All who wander in here without proper consent are
trespassing and will be dealt with harshly.”
32 You come across an ancient cemetery. All the gravestones are neglected bar one which has
had the weeds cleared from around it and fresh flowers placed before it.
33 Perched on the edge of a cliff overlooking a small lake, a dilapidated castle, its walls
crumbling in places, lies ahead.
34
A patrol from a nearby town is halted by the road, their cart having gotten stuck in a
muddy rut. They impolitely demand that you assist them in getting the stuck vehicle free.
“As a citizen of this realm, it is your civic duty to assist us!”
35
A rustle in some bushes ahead and some easily overheard conversation gives away the
position of some juvenile criminals (from a nearby village/town?) planning to ambush a
passing cart.
36
You come to the top of a gully, thick with vegetation. The sound of drums drifts up to you
and smoke from numerous fires rises in plumes above the forest canopy below. Every now
and then you hear chanting, different songs, sometimes a dozen or so voices joined as one.
37
Making your way through a patch of dense undergrowth, you find a concealed tomb,
covered in vines and creepers. Nature has begun reclaiming this forgotten structure, and all
signs of who previously inhabited it are gone. Ripping away foliage, you find a stone door.
38
You are approaching a grove of trees (or a clearing if you are in a forest) and can see a
group of people assembled there. One figure in robes stands before them, and appears to be
chanting a litany of some kind. The others repeat the words in a ritualistic fashion.
39
Several wizards are here, surrounding a swirling field of energy, attempting to control it.
They do not notice your presence, too busy are they with this desperate work! This is some
sort of extra-dimensional energy, trying to enter this world...
122
40 You are approaching a large castle or fortress of some kind. It appears a small military
force is arrayed outside its walls, laying siege to the place.
41
A band of clerics and monks is tending to what appears to be a huge throng of displaced
refugees. Food is being served from huge pots to an endless queue of people. What is their
story, how were they forced out of their home, and where will they go from here?
42 High above you see a flying craft, either magical or created using some unknown
technology, pass overhead. Where is it heading?
43
Suddenly a group of humanoids passes you. Halflings or gnomes, intent on something and
all bearing weapons, are marching purposefully towards some unknown destination. Every
now and then, one particularly angry one at the head of the party yells “Come on boys,
time for some payback eh?” To which the others all roar in approval.
44 You are approached by a group of fey creatures. “Please, we need your help, we’re at our
wits end! Our village is being attacked!”
45
A patch of large fungi is ahead. These strange growths appear to be dripping with a violet
sap. Looking closer, you see that where this sap has landed on the ground, it has killed
everything growing there. It appears to be a virulent poison.
46
You come across an enchanted glade, an oasis of some kind. Clear blue water falls from
above into a serene pond with a sound like the tinkling of crystals, and trees bearing sweetsmelling flowers arc out over the water, occasionally dropping delicate blooms onto the
water’s surface. It is almost too beautiful to be believed...
47
A huge boom, like an explosion, comes from somewhere ahead, perhaps a few miles. It is so
massive that you feel the vibration through the earth. What is it? A meteor? A volcano? A
powerful spell? The only way to find out is to go and investigate.
48 A mansion, the estate of some noble who apparently likes to be away from civilisation, lies
ahead. The gates to the place are guarded.
49
The moon is high in the sky (whether day or night) but does not appear as normal. Roll a
d4. (1) It is a different colour (2) A huge chunk has been blasted off by a comet or
something similar, which looks epic but is rather worrying (3) It appears closer than
normal (4) It is in a phase that it shouldn’t be.
50 A group of soldiers and nobles are supervising a book burning.
51-
55 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Boon table (p.152) (3-4) Level-appropriate medium encounter
56
You enter a copse of trees. Then, in the midst of this small, dense wood, you come across
several carved symbols of various gods, some festooned with cobwebs, others kept clean
and orderly with fresh offerings before them.
57
You come across a travelling salesman who deals exclusively in exotic beasts that he keeps
in cages. His cart is loaded with them! Perhaps you think him cruel, and no doubt there is
an element of cruelty here. But more worrying is the fact that he has gathered all these
strange animals together in one place. What would happen if one or more of them were to
somehow get free?
58
“Friend!” a voice addresses you from somewhere. “Want to make some money? I need a
hand with something. I promise it will be worth your while...” This ragged-looking
individual has a story to tell. Use random keywords or event meaning tables (or both) to
determine what work he is proposing.
123
59
A pair of warriors, utterly spent and bloodied, lie panting after a ferocious duel. They
appear to have been fighting each other all day but are too evenly matched, and neither can
get the upper hand. Perhaps you can mediate in this situation. But first, you’ll need to
understand their dispute. Keywords!
60 A wide river is ahead, and a large band of workers (probably from a nearby settlement) are
creating a dam wall.
61 A garishly-coloured bird alights in a nearby tree and regards you with a gaze that is
distinctly un-birdlike. “Hmm,” it says, looking you up and down. “Intriguing.”
62
You arrive at a rope bridge which extends over a narrow but deep canyon. However, you
are hesitant. The rope looks old and frayed, and you are unsure if it will hold.
63 A lone figure is slumped against a tree sobbing. “My master is dead,” they sob.
64
You reach the top of a low cliff where you are looking down into what appears to be a
quarry. Several ogres are here, bearing whips and other weapons, and are putting a variety
of humanoids to work, using them as slaves to mine this area.
65 You hear a chorus of soft, melodious voices calling to you from nearby, beckoning you to
come closer. The words are almost formed as a song.
66
You meet an adventurer, on their way to explore a famed local ruins. Roll on NPC tables
(or choose a random, level-appropriate sidekick) and generate a dungeon-based quest using
either Chapter 7 of TSAT 1 or any of the quest generation tools in this book. If you wish to
pursue this thread, you must take this NPC with you as they are the one who is on this
quest. You are accompanying them.
67 The foliage suddenly becomes lush and thick in this area. It is a little out of place, and
seems to have sprung up unnaturally, as if the result of some kind of natural magic.
68 You pass a cave in a low cliff. Someone has fitted a door over the entrance. Has it been
turned into a dwelling of some sort? Or, perhaps they merely wanted to restrict entrance.
69
You pass rocks that have strange markings on them, that look to be from the earliest
humanoid civilization that populated these lands. A DC 14 History check will enable you to
determine their basic meaning. Otherwise, who knows what they speak of...
70
A storm approaches from the [d4] (1) Northern (2) Southern (3) Eastern (4) Western
horizon. You fancy you can see the shapes of various creatures within it. Ominous, dark
grey and laced with lightning, it is approaching fast!
71 The sound of fighting nearby, the vibration of heavy footfalls felt through the ground - it
seems like two huge creatures of some description are going at it, fighting to the death!
72 A disembodied voice speaks to you directly. Roll on event meaning tables or keywords list
to discover what this supernatural voice says to you.
73
An absolutely vile smell reaches your nostrils, coming from the [d4] (1) North (2) South
(3) East (4) West. It smells like [d4] (1) Rotting corpses (2) Unwashed bodies (3) Spoiled
Food (4) Excrement.
74
As you watch, you see something shimmer into view, as if teleported from somewhere else.
What is it that you see? [d10]
(1-2) Interesting natural landscape feature (3-4) NPC (5-6) Structure (7-8) Vehicle (9-10)
Something else (roll on Keywords table, p.167).
124
75 Ancient, ruined fortifications lie ahead, although what is behind them is anyone’s guess.
76-
80 Roll a d4. (1-2) Roll on Bane table. p.157 (3-4) level-appropriate hard encounter
81
A marked change in elevation is causing the land to slope upwards towards a plateau.
Several tracks wind their way up towards the summit of this elevation, which should afford
a good view of the surrounding terrain.
82 A travelling apothecary is offering strange herbal remedies with a variety of outlandish
effects. Use keywords to determine the nature of these effects.
83 The landscape on the side of a gently-sloping hill has been marked with white chalk to
resemble the outline of a beast. This land carving may have been here for millennia.
84 Steam is rising from a hot springs ahead. You hear conversation also. (Roll for 1d4+1
NPCs relaxing here, using the NPC tables in TSAT 1).
85
More and more, you notice that the wildlife in this area - birds, deer, insects, small
creatures of all descriptions - appear to have been magically altered. At first it starts with
differences in colouration, but then progresses to mismatched body parts and then totally
hybrid creatures. What is causing this anomaly?
86
You reach a low hill - or is it a structure of some kind - which appears to be entirely formed
of [d4] (1) Glass (2) Steel (3) Gemstone (too hard to mine) (4) Some other non-precious
mineral.
87
These rocks look strange here, out of place, and not fitting with the geology of the area.
Not only that, there is a curious pattern of spirals covering them which you cannot initially
see the purpose of.
88
A geyser is erupting clouds of poisonous steam into the air. You may want to avoid this
area. However, you see activity going on there… are there creatures living here, even
subsisting off these fumes?
89 A patrol from a nearby town is set up here in a roadside booth. Several carts are pulled up
and are being inspected for stolen or smuggled goods and contraband.
90
You meet a lone NPC on your route. They are a bit confused and keep repeating the same
phrase over and over again. “It must never be allowed to happen. It must never be allowed
to happen.” Over and over.
91
Overhead, you see some sort of astronomical portent. [d4] (1) Comet (2) Meteor shower
(3) Eclipse (4) Day or night suddenly appears, no matter what the time. The
scriptures/prophecies of old spoke of this, and what it signified...
92
Ahead, you see what appears to be a large walled garden of some kind. A construct stands
guard outside it, unmoving. What type of construct is it? [d6] (1) Animated armour (2)
Stone defender (3) Shield guardian (4) Clay golem (5) Stone golem (6) Iron golem.
93
A crow flies overhead, and drops a scroll in your path, then turns and departs in an eastern
direction. The scroll bears a different message relevant to the quest you are on.
Or, if you prefer, the scroll reads as follows:
Adventurer! Heed my call! I am in need of your services. Head east, until you see a great tower, with
a sigil marking in its door. That is where I reside. I have a proposition for you.
94 You come across a large rock. The top half of this rock has been carved into the likeness of
a local renowned deity, but the carving is only half-finished and the bottom half of the rock 
125
is still in its natural state. It appears this work was abandoned halfway through. Coming
closer, you notice that the carver’s tools are still there, scattered on the ground amidst rock
chippings.
95
You encounter an open-air forge in the middle of this wilderness. There is a hut nearby,
and 1d4 burly blacksmiths are forging weapons, domestic items, building materials,
smelting iron, copper, many different metals, and generally just doing blacksmith stuff.
96-
100
Level-appropriate deadly encounter

Shortage of commodities such as metals is hampering
weapons and armour trade. Possible deliberate sabotage.
PCs take a contract to locate new source of
commodities.
2
Local militia have bought out all stock and many shops
are empty. They demanded the weapons at a reduced
price.
Perhaps there is a war on? Anyway, merchants are
not doing well.
3 A mysterious rust has affected many weapons. Many weapons are useless. Is this normal rust, or
some other cause?
4 Organized crime collecting levies.
Merchants are hurting. If someone could sort this
particular disturbance out for them, they would be
rewarded.
5 Merchant unions are causing strife, demanding better
pay for labour working in smiths’ etc.
Production of goods has halted until a solution can be
found.
6 Adventurer’s Guild favouring one particular weapons
merchant. Others are suffering.
Possibly not much to be done, unless the party has
some affiliation with the weapons merchant.
7 Adventurers buying everything out, none left for militia. Militia looking down on / harassing adventurers.
8 Local militia are on the lookout for a band of particularly
troublesome adventurers.
Due to some poorly-behaved individuals visiting the
area recently! Or… is it you, perhaps?
9
A wild magic field has sprung up in the area, causing
havoc in various businesses, and occasionally, out on the
streets!
PCs to investigate and quell the disturbance?
10 Fire in a shop is causing havoc. PCs help to put it out, get possible discount!
Arcane District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 A mage meddling with planar spells has unwittingly opened a
portal into another plane.
What plane? And perhaps adventurers are
hired to rescue someone who has gone missing
within the plane, or to figure out a way to close
it.
2 Wild magic field has sprung up.
All sorts of craziness going on, disrupting
business. Use keywords, or Wild Magic Surge
table (DMG) to provide flavour.
3 Supply issues with rare magic spell components.
Adventurers hired to travel to distant lands /
interesting locations to procure strange spell
components.
4 A huge arcane explosion in a wizard’s laboratory has set several
adjacent buildings on fire. Possibly started by an apprentice.
Party might gain some renown by putting out
fire and rescuing wizard’s apprentice.
5 An evil faction practicing secret magic has moved into the
neighbourhood, so the rumours go. Adventurers hired to gather information.
6
People are being driven mad by a particular spell that was cast a
few weeks ago and has taken on a life of its own. It is some form
of illusion or enchantment, and it has people losing their minds.
Party hired to investigate or perhaps procure
an item that will bring an end to this spell. Or,
figure out some other solution.
7 Creatures from below are attracted to the arcane energy in the
area.
Adventurers hired to quell these creatures and
uncover exactly what it is that is attracting
them.
8 A prominent local mage has died and a huge ceremony is in
progress.
The festivities are very interesting for all and
may lead to some interesting leads / adventure
seeds.
75
Artisan District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 Shortage of raw materials due to repeated hijackings of
supply trains en route to the city. PCs offer services to escort / remove obstacles?
2 Workers striking. PCs mistaken for “scabs” and mobbed by angry
workers
3 Shopkeepers harassed by local thugs. PCs offer to remove thug disturbance.
4 Major organized crime disturbance. Local thieves’ guild responsible? Adventurers
hired to investigate.
5 Different smiths are arguing about water supply and how
particular businesses are taking more than their fair share.
Who is going to sort out this dispute? Could erupt
into violence.
6 Someone has adopted a controversial hiring policy.
Competitors are not pleased.
One group being discriminated against? Or
perhaps the method of interview is controversial.
7 Bound elementals causing havoc. Adventurers hired to fix the problem.
8 Prices are hugely inflated due to scarcity of resources Can new resources be sourced elsewhere?
Commerce District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 District in an uproar after a recent heist relieved one bank of
most of its gold and gems! Adventurers hired to track down the thieves.
2 Security extra tight after a huge shipment of treasure is
scheduled to be transported here from a dead noble’s estate.
Possibility of a heist? Or, adventurers hired as
security, and for good money too.
3 A prominent local financier or other moneyed person has been
murdered. There are a few suspects.
What was this person doing that caused them to
become a target?
4
Poverty-stricken citizens are protesting outside a large
merchant bank, saying that the bank has been acting
unscrupulously.
It looks like it could kick off into a riot at any
stage!
5
There is an exhibition of extremely valuable art on right now
at a gallery in this district, although some of the paintings
are… evocative to say the least.
Several people have reported having strange
hallucinations after viewing the exhibition. The
artist themself has not been seen in a number of
days.
6
Authorities have just discovered a network of tunnels running
underneath the financial district, although their purpose is
unknown.
Someone needs to get to the bottom of this!
7
A religious group has stored an ancient artifact in a bank here,
made of a pure precious mineral. It was recently discovered and
they are unsure where to house it. Perhaps a new temple must
be built.
There are strange goings-on around this idol.
The bank itself is exhibiting some strange
phenomena, as are the staff who work there.
8
High ranking financial dignitaries are visiting from out of
town. There are rumours that some of them make their money
in less than scrupulous ways.
Adventurers hired for protection? Or
assassination perhaps?
76
Commodities District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 Workers are striking and demanding better pay. Rioting in streets, general unrest.
2
There is a trade issue with a neighbouring realm who supplies a basic
material (such as iron or timber) to this realm. Ambassadors from that
nation are in town, but will they ever be able to get along?
What is the issue at heart here? This
could form an interesting
background to your current quest.
3
A warrant is out for a particularly brazen thief who is conducting robberies
against transports to and from the commodities district. This thief has been
at large for months now.
A large bounty is being offered for
their capture and/or death.
4 A vacant building has become infested with all kinds of vermin. Rumour
suggests that the basement is connected to some catacombs beneath.
Adventurers could be hired to go in
and investigate, possibly venturing
into the catacombs below.
5
An engineer resident in this area is known for his remarkable buildings, all
of which seem to planar anomalies. Is it the design of these buildings that
causes this?
Adventurers to interview this man
and get to the bottom of why he is
doing this.
6
There is a condemned, boarded-up building that no-one seems to know
anything about, but that everyone avoids. No-one even knows who owns
the place.
Adventurers to investigate city
records to find out the building’s
history, and/or explore the building.
7
A boatbuilder is restoring an historically significant ship and has
discovered hidden treasure, including a map which shows directions to an
island previously thought undiscovered!
The boatbuilder is looking for an
adventuring party to follow up on
these leads.
8
Building supplies are short due to a newly-landed noble constructing a
castle just outside of town. The thing is, no-one has ever met this noble, or
even seen them about. He seems to be a recluse. However, they are
monopolising and building materials in town!
Look into this lord’s background
perhaps, or find another source
where timber and stone can be
sourced from.
Divine District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible Outcomes/Seeds
1 Rival religious factions are warring here. Violent clashes are frequent. Mediate between factions.
2 Aggressive recruitment drive by a particular cult. Violence / Clashes
3 The worshippers of a particular god are the target of religious hate crimes. Find out what the perpetrators are.
4 Hardship in a particular part of the city (or area outside the city) has drawn
many refugees and impoverished people to the area.
Petition local government to act
on this situation.
5 Temples have been vandalised and idols destroyed. Who is behind this?
6 Supplies for worship and offerings are in scant supply and devotees are
worried their god or gods will become displeased.
Where can these supplies be
sourced from?
7 Disease is causing hospitals and poor-houses to be overwhelmed What is causing the disease?
8
A miracle of some sort is happening in one of the temples. Perhaps an idol is
crying blood or a planar rift has opened beneath a temple. Adventurers to investigate
77
Entertainment / Illicit Industries District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 A playwright has written a new work that a rival claims steals ideas
from a tome of black magic.
Where did this writer find this tome?
They shouldn’t possess such a book! `
2
Visitors to dens of iniquity are waking up groggy, with all their
belongings gone - and sometimes other things - vital organs perhaps,
or their sanity...
Who is trapping these hapless wretches
and stealing their most precious
belongings?
3
A noted gangster’s family has been kidnapped. The kidnappers are
demanding a ransom. His foot soldiers don’t have the finesse required
to deal with this situation.
Adventurers hired to track down the
kidnappers and rescue the family.
4 A local rogue has been training street urchins as pickpockets. By all
reports their efforts have been very fruitful!
Either stop this miscreant or maybe join
forces!
5 A potent new drug is doing the rounds and is turning addicts into
zombies… literally!
Adventurers to look into this. Who is
behind it?
6
A local tavern is hosting a drinking contest of epic proportions. Those
who can take their ale are encouraged to enter!
Sounds like the beginnings of a great
night’s entertainment!
7
There is a warrant out for the arrest of a notorious criminal who is
said to be hiding amongst the taverns, theatres, brothels and drug
dens in this area.
A large bounty is at stake! But beware -
this criminal is said to have many
accomplices.
8
A notable musician and composer has invited the public to come
witness the premier of his latest piece, which he promises will be
“unlike anything you’ve seen before!”
Dare you attend?
Government District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 Common folk picketing for better living conditions / change of
something
PCs join their cause? Or, PCs are paid by
governmental officials to move the peasants on?
2 Election of some sort (major / minor) is causing chaos and
violent exchanges in the street. PCs caught in the middle.
3 Visiting dignitary has the place in a tight security lockdown. PCs hired for security / PCs questioned as to
their presence there.
4
Corrupt officials are hampering proper running of government.
Tampering with judicial / electoral / other administrative
processes.
PCs hired to investigate.
5
A coup by a powerful cult has ousted / killed the previous
ruling body and is now holding possession of major
administrative buildings / Town Hall etc.
PCs hired to rout out these revolutionaries. But
who here fights the good fight?
6
Sectors of the government are being mismanaged and it
shows. Corrupt local politicians accepting bribes etc. Corruption is rife, from the town guard up.
7 Government is preparing for potential war with another nation
and have no time for any other concerns.
Military are massing, officers are consulting with
higher dignitaries - things are heating up. Where
do you stand in this fight?
8 A high-ranking politician/noble/public figure has been
kidnapped. Revolutionaries are suspected.
Who is in the right here? Party hired to
investigate.
78
Home & Hospitality District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 A plague of rats is decimating many warehouses, causing grains and
many other food sources to become spoiled. Where are these vermin coming from?
2
A local trap merchant is rushed off his feet making traps for a mage
who lives somewhere out of town. It is said that this mage is
constructing a deathtrap dungeon to test worthy champions.
Sounds intriguing! When will the mage
announce the contest?
3 A fishmonger has returned from his most recent catch with disturbing
tales of monsters terrorizing the harbour.
What foul denizens of the deep are out
there?
4
People will pay anything for this particular rare ingredient, and a local
rare edibles specialist will reward anyone who can find the source of
this delicacy well.
What is this strange food and where can
it be found?
5
It’s said that this restaurant was once the best in the city, but now
something has made their dishes taste awful, and the chefs can’t
discover what it is. Has someone cursed them?
Adventurers hired to investigate.
6 A local noble is planning a huge banquet to honour a local retired
adventurer, and the food businesses are rushed off their feet.
How hard would it be to get an invite to
this banquet? You’re sure to pick up
some interesting information if you
attend.
7
A seller of rare wines and liquors has been robbed, cleaned out of all
their stock. Amongst their vaults were also some vintages said to
possess magical properties. The owner seems very perturbed by the
disappearance of these bottles.
What is the owner not telling you?
There’s something about these bottles...
8
Strange noises have been coming from beneath the streets here.
Possibly all the rich food has created a ‘fatberg’ in the sewers? Or
perhaps it is something even more disgusting than that...
Adventurers with strong stomachs hired
to investigate. Hopefully this problem is
only wafer-thin, as they say.
Military District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible Outcomes/ Seeds
1 A drunken soldier tells you that revolution is in the air. The local militia are
tired of the poor treatment and are planning on staging a coup.
Adventurers either sit back and
watch it happen, or alert the
authorities.
2 Combat drills are taking place in the streets, putting local vendors on edge.
What is all the fuss about?
Is there an invasion coming that
the locals don’t know about?
3
A shortage of steel means that many local weaponsmiths are struggling to
produce stock. This has made the local militia tetchy and on edge. Tensions are
high.
Might be best to move on
quickly.
4 The militia has their sights set on a local bandit camp. Anyone looking vaguely
suspicious is stopped and interrogated without warning.
Adventurers could be hired to
go and rout the bandits and
retrieve stolen booty.
5
The guards are nervous, due to a spate of troll/giant/ogre (pick your monster)
attacks that have happened in the last few months. It seems that with every
assault, the creatures are becoming more co-ordinated in their efforts.
Who knows when the next
attack on the gates of this
settlement will come?
6
The militia are down to a skeleton crew. Several garrisons have left to take care
of a nearby incursion threatening the town, inadvertently leaving the town
vulnerable to other threats.
The remaining guards are
nervous, and will probably
welcome any help the
adventurers can offer.
7
The local militia have had numbers bolstered by a visiting army allied with the
ruler of the city / realm. However, this has meant there are a lot more
professional soldiers out and about, which is stretching the town’s resources,
and the tempers of the local townsfolk, to breaking point.
Anything could kick off!
8 A tournament of knights and warriors, aiming to test martial ability, is
currently in progress, attracting all comers.
The adventurers could try their
hand in these tests of martial
prowess.
79
Personal Services District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1
There has been a spate of disappearances in this area. Many people
suspect the local barber, but regardless, the undertaker doesn’t seem
too concerned.
Adventurers hired to investigate.
2
A local dealer in pets has just come into possession of the most bizarre
creature. Word has spread, and crowds have gathered outside the petdealer’s shop, hoping to get a glimpse of the strange creature.
This merchant might have bitten off a bit
more than she can chew… or maybe it’s
the creature that’s going to be doing some
chewing.
3 A bounty hunter who has his offices in this area has gone missing. It
is uncertain what his last job was, but someone is certain to know.
A bounty for those who can find the
missing bounty hunter?
4
A local doctor cannot explain a spate of strange illnesses that she has
seen recently. Patients come in with strange markings on their bodies,
then a matter of days later are speaking absolute gibberish and
exhibiting extremely violent behaviour.
Perhaps the good doctor has some
theories about what is causing this illness.
5
An urban mage is said to be trapped in his tower. Something has
imprisoned him in there. Passers-by say that it is something he
summoned, or perhaps his arcane patron. Others say that his magic
trinkets have taken on a life of their own.
Adventurers hired to investigate.
6
Someone has been convicted of a crime they did not commit and is
sentenced to be executed. A lawyer in this area is appealing for help in
uncovering the truth.
This lawyer has a theory about who did it
and needs the investigators to check it
out.
7
The local undertaker is swamped with recently deceased clients and
their families. Where are all these corpses coming from? Most of them
he doesn’t even recognize and they all have one strange trait in
common...
Are these people even from this town?
8
A local guide is recruiting adventurers to help with an expedition into
nearby dangerous territory. A noble is convinced that a map he
inherited leads to treasure, and has hired the guide to help him look
for it.
Is the party interested? The reward is
quite good!
Residential District Disturbance Table
d20 Disturbance Possible Outcomes / Seeds
1 Slum lords hiking rents sky high. Residents are on the verge of
rioting!
PCs take the disturbance to the local slum
lord, who is potentially connected with
organized crime.
2 Giant rat (or other nastier) infestation!
PCs investigate. Probably originating from
the sewers or catacombs. What else is down
there?
3 A particular group (religious/cult?) has moved into the area.
Certain narrow-minded residents are not happy.
PCs move in to mediate? Surely we can all
get along.
4 Brothel setting up shop. Certain narrow-minded residents are
not happy.
Frequent spats between residents and brothel
employees / managers. Also organized crime
may be involved, strong-arming residents.
5 Tavern moving into the area. The resident’s association is
worried about this attracting “the wrong sort of people”.
Residents picketing outside tavern,
sometimes violence erupts.
6
Town planning has determined that a new street or road needs
to run right through this area. They are compulsorily acquiring
houses.
Residents in an uproar. Perhaps PCs can take
this to city hall, acting as representatives?
Will definitely increase renown in the
settlement.
7 Burglaries have been happening in various houses around here. PCs apprehend the villain? Might take some
staking out.
8 Lively block party getting a little too lively. The town guard is trying to disband it but it
looks like a nasty confrontation is imminent.
9 A fire has ravaged / is ravaging several houses. Does anyone need saving?
80
10 Major graffiti / vandalism disturbance. Who is perpetrating this, and what does the
graffiti say?
11 Squatters in abandoned houses. And they may not be humanoid! Adventurers hired to get to the bottom of
this situation.
12
A sorcerer moved into the area recently, and the smells and
sounds coming from his house have been alarming residents. He
hasn’t been seen for several days.
What is he up to in there?
13
A team of archaeologists has found something in the middle of
someone’s courtyard and are now digging large holes, to the
dismay of residents. They have the permission of the local ruler.
What have they found?
Some sort of ancient tomb, or perhaps
something that should perhaps be left buried?
14 Natural gas, under the streets, is causing explosions. PCs investigate cause? Does an explosion
happen as they are passing through?
15 Bodies found in the wall of a particular house, or buried in the
garden. Historical, or recent? Investigators looking into it. This could be the result of an ancient crime.
16 A local group of bards is practicing their songs till all hours,
annoying local residents
OK guys, we know you love to jam, but this is
getting ridiculous!
17 Gangs of armed thugs, roaming the streets at night, terrorising
local residents. These thugs need to be taught a lesson.
18
Local authorities believe that a large building housing many
tenants in fact connects to a system of tunnels below and is being
used to ferry criminals and possibly other more dangerous
individuals to and from the city.
Adventurers hired to investigate.
19 Bizarre smells are coming from a local restaurant. What are they cooking in there? Smells
nasty!
20 A wealthy noble has just purchased the entire district from its
slum-lord owners and is the process of evicting everyone. Who does this noble think she is?
Scribes District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible outcomes / Seeds
1 Shortage of ink is making doing business difficult!
Adventurers contracted to
go and search for giant
squid.
2 A map vendor has come into possession of a rare map. He can’t really understand it
as the markings are rather strange.
Adventurers hired to look
into it.
3
A scribe is offering a reward of 500 gold pieces to the brave soul who can pluck a
feather from a living roc. They are said to live in a nearby mountain range, and he
needs a roc feather to serve as a quill in drafting a magical contract.
Adventurers hired to quest
into the mountains and
retrieve a roc feather.
4
A local bookseller has come into possession of a disturbing occult tome. Many
believe it to prophesize a coming doom, and this merchant has cultists protesting
outside the bookshop. The book is being kept under lock and key, but it’s obvious
that it is attracting a lot of attention.
Can you aid this poor
merchant? They appear to be
in way over their head.
5 Carts carrying wood to the town/city for conversion into paper have been waylaid
by an army of angry treants. As a result, there is a paper shortage.
Adventurers asked to
mediate.
6
There is a huge dispute between government officials, the militia and local
townsfolk. Due to military activity, the armed forces have said they need all
available paper for the purpose of sending dispatches between encampments. This
has everyone else who uses paper (government officials, mages, scribes etc) up in
arms. A black market in paper has emerged.
Adventurers to look into
securing another source of
paper?
7
A fanatic local religion is advocating the burning of what they call “profane texts.”
Certain booksellers are being targeted, and there are mass book burnings taking
place. A lot of valuable knowledge is being lost, and tensions are high.
What can the adventurers do
to quell this fanaticism and
stop this madness?
8 A fire has broken out and threatens to consume several well-loved bookstores.
If the party can help rescue
these stores, then they may
be rewarded with a valuable
tome or two.
81
Smith’s District Disturbance Table
d8 Disturbance Possible Outcomes
1 Shortage of commodities such as metals is halting local industry and causing
strife amongst workers and businesses.
PCs take on contract to locate
new source of commodities.
2 Oversupply / harsh taxes / disturbances with military funding and local
economy have caused quite a few smiths to close. Adventurers asked to mediate.
3 Organized crime is trying to muscle their way into the area, offering
“protection” and trying to control various blacksmithing businesses.
Sounds like some thugs need a
beatdown! Or at least a stern
talking-to.
4
The creation of a large dwarven artifact is causing one forge to emit a huge
amount of heat from its forges. This is causing inconvenience to other
businesses, but the owners of this forge are never visible, and no-one has been
able to even get inside this smithing operation to complain.
Adventurers asked to
investigate.
5 Workers are being mistreated in several smiths and smelting factories. You
hear rumours that there might be some worker exploitation going on.
Some particularly vulnerable
people are being mistreated.
What are you going to do about
it?
6
One industry (weaponry? transport) is taking all the metal products and other
industries are suffering and unable to operate business. This is causing anger
which could bubble over into street violence.
This conflict is impinging on
peaceful life within this
settlement!
7
Fire has broken out, started from one of the forges. If not controlled, there
could be huge damage, but what is it specifically that was being forged at the
time?
Adventurers to the rescue!
8 A bound elemental controlling a forge has escaped and is causing havoc.
You may encounter this
elemental on the street, or you
may hear about i